 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1987 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1987 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1987 International Monetary Fund Price: US$15.00 (US$8.00 to university libraries, faculty members, and students). Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Attention: Publication Services Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodi- cals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.7'51 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 0-939934-97-3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund June 15, 1987 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1987, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second half of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART ONE Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction Global Environment Developments in Exchange and Trade Policies Exchange Rate Arrangements II. Main Developments in Restrictive Exchange and Trade Practices Quantitative Restrictions Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures Affecting Import Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles and Transfers External Payments Arrears Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements and Countertrade Practices Capital Controls Gold III. Developments in Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Rates Developments Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements Developments in the Exchange Rates of Industrial Countries Developments in Exchange Rate Arrangements in Other Countries IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements Appendix. Summary of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two Afghanistan Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil PART Two Burkina Faso Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica 65 67 70 74 76 83 87 91 94 96 102 105 110 112 115 116 118 120 vii Page 3 3 5 7 10 10 12 14 15 15 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 25 29 29 39 44 127 131 134 137 140 143 145 148 151 154 160 166 168 171 174 177 179 183 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordon Kampuchea, Democratic* Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Page 186 189 193 198 203 205 208 211 215 222 225 227 229 233 237 239 242 244 246 249 251 254 255 261 264 274 279 281 283 287 290 295 298 302 305 308 309 313 315 317 319 321 323 326 329 332 335 337 *The Fund has not received from the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1986. Vlll Malta Mauritania Mauritius .. Mexico Morocco... Mozambique Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Page 339 342 344 347 351 356 358 361 364 366 368 372 376 379 382 383 390 392 394 397 402 409 415 419 420 423 426 428 430 432 434 435 438 440 442 444 446 448 452 456 461 464 467 469 473 475 479 482 486 490 491 495 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa CONTENTS Page 504 507 509 512 518 520 522 527 529 Yemen Arab Republic Yemen, People's Democratic Republic Yugoslavia Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 531 533 536 541 545 548 553 560 Note: The term "coun try ," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial en t i ty that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided in terna t iona l ly on a separate and independent basis. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART ONE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction The period covered by this Report is 1986 and, for major developments, the first quarter of 1987. The Report draws on information available to the Fund from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of consultation visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close collaboration with national authorities. The International Monetary Fund's Articles of Agreement call for member countries to provide the Fund with a comprehensive description of their exchange rate arrangements and exchange controls, and changes in these as they occur. Measures modifying members' restrictions on imports are also monitored by the Fund in the context of its function of surveillance over exchange rate policies of members. The Report focuses on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it also includes other external economic policy measures and intergovernmental arrangements that have direct balance of payments implications. As in previous Reports, in the descriptions of members' systems, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised; the description in the Report of a restrictive practice by a member does not mean that it is or is not being maintained consistently with the Fund's Articles, or that, if subject to Article VIII, it has or has not been approved by the Fund. Global Environment In 1986 world output is estimated to have grown by 3 percent, marginally less than in 1985. The growth of world trade volume, however, picked up to 5 percent from 3 percent in the previous year, despite continuing protectionist pressures. The ac- celeration in the growth of trade volume in a period of weakening output growth was unusual, being only the second time in the last 15 years (the other was in 1979) that the two growth rates have moved in opposite directions (Chart 1). The relative buoyancy of world trade in 1986 was not, however, broadly spread. While the volume of goods imported by the industrial countries rose by 9 percent, imports by the developing countries as a whole fell by 3 percent, with falling imports of fuel exporters more than offsetting rising imports of other developing countries. This pattern of trade growth was accounted for in part by the stimulus provided by a large shift in the terms of trade in favor of the industrial countries. A decline of almost one half in oil prices (in U.S. dollar terms) and continuing weakness in the prices of other primary commodities, which in relation to the prices of manufactures fell to their lowest level since at least the 1930s, were the major contributing factors. International prices of agricultural commodities re- mained depressed by short-term demand and supply factors, as well as structural influences, including restrictions and local price support policies that induced oversupply in the industrial economies. The large rise in industrial countries' imports was reflected in the increases of 10 percent and 14 percent, respectively, in exports of fuel-exporting countries and manufactures by the developing coun- try group. The latter increase reflected both real income gains in the industrial countries and the competitive positions of the exporters. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS CHART 1 GROWTH OF WORLD TRADE AND OUTPUT, 1971-861 (Percent change in volume) Sources: Data provided by national authorities; and staff estimates. 1 Trade (exports plus imports) and output (gross national product) are in volume terms. Prior to 1977, the People's Republic of China is excluded. In the industrial countries, output growth slowed from 3 percent in 1985 to 2l/z percent in 1986, the fourth year of recovery from the 1980-82 recession. The slowing occurred as a faster growth of domestic absorption was more than offset by an overall decline in industrial countries' net exports. Although in real terms the industrial countries' payments position weakened in 1986 and made a negative contribution to their output growth, their aggregate current account deficit narrowed markedly owing to the improvement in their terms of trade. Within the group of industrial countries, however, the distribution of external imbalances widened fur ther. In particular, the current account deficit of the United States and the surpluses of the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan reached record levels, as the effects on trade of the large exchange rate adjustments in the period since the U.S. dollar peaked early in 1985 remained subject to the "J-curve." Inflation in the industrial countries declined fur- ther in 1986, and inflation differentials continued to narrow. Consumer prices rose by only 2!/2 percent, ll/2 percentage points less than in 1985 and the lowest inflation rate since the early 1960s. Oil prices declined by almost one half. The continuing reduc- tion of inflation and sustained output growth in industrial countries clearly distinguishes this from previous post-war recoveries, and is a particularly positive development. In contrast, unemployment 4 again declined only marginally, to an average rate of 8 percent, compared with the peak of 8!/2 percent reached in 1983. In the developing countries, output growth firmed slightly in 1986, to 3l/z percent, wholly on account of a sharp increase in net exports; domestic demand in these economies was generally flat. However, experience varied widely among groups of coun- tries. The fuel exporting countries suffered a dete- rioration of almost one half in their terms of trade. Partly owing to prompt adjustment measures, the volume of their imports fell by more than one fifth, while the volume of their exports grew by one ten th. Although the increase in export volume alleviated the contractionary effects on output of reduced domestic demand, output in this group of countries declined. In contrast, developing country exporters of manufactures benefited not only from cheaper oil and raw material imports, but also from the increase in demand in industrial country markets. The latter, together with exchange rate policies, helped generate a 14 percent rise in export volume in the group of manufactures-exporting countries in spite of an increased growth rate of domestic de- mand and increasing protectionist barriers abroad. For exporters of nonfuel primary products, the overall terms of trade were virtually unchanged on balance in 1986 and, notwithstanding an overall decline in export volume, these countries achieved an acceleration of output growth. Inflation perfor- mance in developing countries in 1986 was more satisfactory than for several years, but it remains a cause of concern in many cases. The deterioration in developing countries' terms of trade caused their aggregate current account deficit to widen in 1986 for the first time since the onset of the debt crisis in 1982. This deterioration was more than accounted for by the fuel exporters. The overall deterioration would have been much greater without the adjustment in the volume of exports relative to imports, which resulted in part from policy measures and which also reflected pressures arising from the reduced availability of external credit. In contrast, the aggregate deficit of the group of non-oil developing countries, in which most of the external debt difficulties are concen- trated, narrowed fur ther, from US$27 billion to US$18 billion, as exporters of manufactures im- proved their position substantially and moved into surplus. The declining trend in interest rates observed since 1984 continued in 1986. Rates on U.S. dollar- denominated instruments have fallen particularly sharply. The three-month London Interbank Of- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION fered Rate (LIBOR) averaged 7 percent in 1986— its lowest level since 1977—compared with 8!/2 percent in 1985. Apart from the adjustment of their trade volumes and lower interest rates, developing countries' financing requirements were restrained also by a curbing of capital outflows, again related to adjustment measures. In particular, the growing adoption by a number of developing countries of flexible exchange rate and interest rate policies helped them to stem capital outflows. Nevertheless, the aggregate debt service ratio increased in 1986 owing to higher amortization payments and the weak growth of export earnings. External payments arrears, which had declined in 1985 for the first time in seven years, are provisionally estimated to have increased again in 1986, although remaining below their previous peak level. Developments in Exchange and Trade Policies In 1986 protectionist pressures for trade restric- tions in the industrial countries continued to be fueled by large and widening bilateral trade imbal- ances, persistently high levels of unemployment, and a widespread slowing of economic growth. In spite of continued resistance by some governments, quantitative restrictions were tightened in many industrial countries. There were nevertheless sev- eral positive developments in the trade and exchange system. First, agreement was reached to launch a new round of trade negotiations under GATT aus- pices. Second, in the developing countries the trend toward more liberal exchange and trade regimes continued as balance of payments pressures were addressed in a number of cases by exchange and trade reforms. Third, in both industrial and deve- loping countries there were many reductions in restrictions on current invisible payments and un- requited transfers. Fourth, the trend in both groups of countries toward liberalization of international capital transfers continued (see earlier Reports). In September 1986 trade ministers meeting in Punta del Este, Uruguay, agreed to launch the eighth round of multilateral trade negotiations to be held under GATT auspices. The Uruguay Round of negotiations will aim, among other things, to bring trade in agriculture and textiles within the frame- work of GATT principles, and will examine the possibility of establishing rules for international trade in services. In 1986 there were few instances in the industrial countries of liberalization of quantitative trade re- strictions. Meanwhile, voluntary export restraints continued to proliferate, mainly protecting the mar- kets of the European Communities (EC) and the United States on a bilateral basis. The exporting country most affected by such restraints was Japan, while in sectoral terms the arrangements pertained mainly to steel products and automobiles. In the steel sector, the United States requested consulta- tions with three suppliers with which restraint agree- ments had not previously been concluded, and one of these (Taiwan)t adopted restrictions on its ex- ports. Following an announcement by the United States in May 1986 of its intention to negotiate voluntary restraint agreements on machine tools with Germany, Japan, Switzerland, and Taiwan,t such an agreement was concluded with Taiwant and limits introduced in December 1986. Also, a dispute between the EC and the United States was resolved by agreement on an annual quota on U.S. imports of semifinished steel from the EC. In the automobile sector, Japan set an unchanged limit on such exports to the United States and some member countries of the EC continued to maintain individual limits of various types on Japanese exports. Also, Canada reached agreement with Japan and Korea on supplies of automobiles from those countries. In the textiles sector, the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) of GATT was extended in August 1986 for a further five years. The MFA is intended to regulate indus- trial country imports of textiles from developing countries, mainly through implementation of bilat- eral agreements. The new arrangement extends the coverage to fibers not previously included and appears to give room for more restrictive bilateral agreements. However, its restrictive or liberalizing impact will depend in the last analysis on the agreements negotiated by participating countries. Developments in industrial countries' tariff poli- cies were more encouraging. The EC and Austria implemented, one year ahead of schedule, the re- maining tariff reductions pledged under the Tokyo Round, and both Japan and New Zealand reduced or eliminated tariffs on a number of products in accordance with their liberalization programs. As in preceding years, industrial countries reduced the level and coverage of most-favored-nation (MFN) tariffs. The EC and the United States also settled two important trade disputes. The settlement of the first (the "pasta-citrus war"), which stemmed from a U.S. complaint in 1982 that the EC's preferential access agreements with 12 Mediterranean countries unfairly discriminated against U.S. citrus exports, tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS obviated a perceived need for planned tariff in- creases and other countermeasures. The settlement of the second, concerning the trade consequences of the accession of Portugal and Spain to the EC, led to the dismantling of certain retaliatory tariff measures. Tariff reductions greatly outnumbered increases in 1986, but strains in trade relations were evidenced in increases in assessments of antidump- ing duties and in the number of antidumping inves- tigations initiated by industrial countries. These latter actions were taken, however, within the con- text of existing legislation and regulatory provisions. In the developing countries, there was a further movement away from quantitative exchange and trade controls in 1986. Among countries floating their exchange rates, four virtually eliminated their import restrictive systems (The Gambia, Guinea, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone), while Ghana considerably nar- rowed the range of imports subject to prior autho- rization. Liberalizing measures also predominated in developing countries' import taxation policies. Among the instruments used for the management of imports in developing countries, only advance import deposits were used in a generally more restrictive way in 1986, and in only a relatively small number of cases. With regard to restrictions on exports other than the voluntary restraints referred to above, the United States imposed prohibitions on virtually all exports to the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and certain exports to South Africa, but abolished certain controls on crude oil exports and removed certain restrictions on trade with the U.S.S.R. and Spain. EC members also adopted various restric- tions on exports to South Africa. Otherwise, there were few changes in 1986 in industrial countries' export restrictions. In early 1987 the United States relaxed controls on high-technology exports main- tained for security reasons. Some developing coun- tries reduced quantitative export controls or lowered export taxes, while others increased incentives to export through fiscal measures or improved access to credit. Foreign exchange surrender requirements were liberalized in France, and also in some deve- loping countries, but they were tightened in others. Countertrade arrangements as a means of balancing bilateral trade and promoting exports have contin- ued to play a role in the commercial policies of a number of countries, both industrial and developing. Although the relative importance of trade conducted under such arrangements is difficult to gauge, there were tentative indications that recourse to counter- trade, particularly with regard to oil, may have diminished in 1985-86. 6 A significant liberalization of restrictions on cur- rent invisible payments and unrequited transfers occurred in 1986—mainly in developing countries, as few industrial countries maintain restrictions in this category. Measures often took the form of increases in foreign exchange allocations for over- seas travel or study, but a number of countries also removed or eased restrictions on investment income remittances. Despite the reduced use of formal restrictions on exchange and trade flows in 1986, ad hoc restrictions giving rise to external payments arrears continued to be widespread. There were indications of a further increase in the number of developing countries maintaining such restrictions, and the value of total outstanding payments arrears, having declined in 1985, is estimated to have risen again in 1986, although remaining below the 1984 peak. Of the countries that reduced or eliminated arrears in 1985, the latest year for which complete data are available, seven did so entirely through cash payments and two entirely through rescheduling. In 1986, 18 Fund member countries with payments arrears outstand- ing concluded multilateral debt renegotiations with official and commercial creditors. In a further three cases, negotiations with creditors had been initiated but not concluded by the end of the year. In 1986 agreements signed to restructure members' external debt obligations amounted to SDR 26 billion, com- pared with SDR 119 billion in 1985. As in the two preceding years, developing coun- tries' reliance on multiple currency practices de- creased in 1986. New multiple arrangements were introduced in seven countries, but two of these cases constituted transitional steps in exchange reform toward unification of the exchange rate system at a markedly more realistic level of the exchange rate. Meanwhile, 19 member countries either eliminated or simplified multiple currency practices. The liberalization of exchange controls on capital transactions noted in recent Annual Reports contin- ued in 1986, particularly in the industrial countries. This trend has reflected not only a greater reliance on exchange rate and interest rate policies as a means of influencing capital flows, but also reduced confidence in the effectiveness of exchange controls, given widespread capital flight from countries main- taining such controls. In some cases, the liberali- zation of capital controls has been undertaken in the wider context of financial deregulation. The liberalization of capital flows in recent years has contributed to a rapid expansion of international financial transactions. In 1986, apart from bans on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION investment in Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and South Africa by the United States, all reported modifica- tions to rules governing outward portfolio and direct investment involved the elimination or liberalization of restrictions, predominantly by countries in West- ern Europe, notably France. There were changes in inward portfolio and direct investment in both industrial and developing countries, mostly entailing the elimination or easing of restrictions, or the introduction or expansion of incentives, such as the removal of impediments to debt-equity swaps. In general, rules governing commercial banks' inter- national transactions were liberalized in industrial countries in 1986, but tightened in developing coun- tries, largely in response to balance of payments difficulties. The general pattern of the main changes in re- strictions in 1986 is indicated in Table 1, which shows the number of liberalizing and restrictive measures of different types (unweighted by the value of transactions affected by the measure) undertaken by industrial and developing countries. The table indicates a preponderance of liberalizing measures, both overall and in each of the main categories of measures other than those relating to exports. Par- ticularly striking are the broad movement toward liberalization of exchange and trade controls in the developing countries and the further progress to- ward the dismantling of exchange controls on capital movements in the industrial countries. Develop- ments in 1986 may be viewed in the context of developments over the previous decade, which are illustrated in Chart 2. This chart, updating that shown in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrange- ments and Exchange Restrictions, 1982, shows the number of countries employing restrictions of various types at the end of each year between 1975 and 1985. Notable features shown are the general downward trend in the use of import sur- charges and advance import deposits between the late 1970s and 1984-85, and the halt to the prolif- eration of external payments arrears and other current payments restrictions after 1982-83. In 1986 the total Fund membership increased from 149 to 151 with the accession of Kiribati on June 3 and the re-admission of Poland on June 12. Kiribati accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Articles of Agreement on August 22, as did Spain on July 15, bringing to 62 the number of countries accepting the Article VIII obligations as of end-1986. On Septem- ber 8, Poland became one of 89 members availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2. All members have notified the Fund of their decision regarding Article VIII or XIV status. Twenty-four countries availing them- selves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV maintain exchange systems that are free of restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Twelve of those countries are members of the West African Mone- tary Union or the Central African Monetary Area. Exchange Rate Arrangements The external value of the U.S. dollar, which had reached a peak in February 1985, continued to Table 1: Summary of Main Changes in Restrictions in 1986 Liberalizing Changes Developing Countries Industrial Countries Restrictive Changes Developing Countries Industrial Countries 1. 2. Imports Quantitative controls Other Exports Quantitative controls Other 3. 4. Current invisibles Capital Source: Appendix Table. 10 14 3 4 13 46 90 44 61 11 46 31 35 228 28 36 8 5 1 7 85 23 38 5 24 15 8 113 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS CHART 2 INCIDENCE OF RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES BY FUND MEMBERS, 1975-851 (Number of countries) Source: Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Re- strictions, various issues. 1 Data are for countries that were Fund members throughout the period shown. decline through 1986, by 13 percent in nominal effective terms. There was a corresponding appre- ciation of each of the currencies of the other major industrial countries, except for Canada and the United Kingdom. The depreciation of the dollar in 1986 reflected several factors. First, the widening of current account imbalances in the United States, Germany, and Japan encouraged perceptions that further exchange rate adjustment was necessary. Second, the decline in oil prices favored the cur- rencies of Western Europe and Japan, countries that are relatively more dependent on oil imports than the United States. Third, movements in interest 8 differentials between the United States and most other industrial countries generally favored the cur- rencies of the latter countries, particularly in the second half of the year. In early 1987 the dollar depreciated again. By end-March 1987 the dollar's nominal effective exchange rate, according to the Fund's multilateral exchange rate model (MERM), was 36 percent depreciated with respect to its peak of February 1985. Following the September 1985 Plaza Agreement among the Group of Five countries on the coordi- nation of official action in foreign exchange markets, there were two rounds of coordinated monetary policy actions in the spring of 1986 entailing reduc- tions in discount rates. These cuts were coordinated with the purpose of avoiding undesirable exchange rate fluctuations. Also, at the end of October a bilateral agreement was announced between the United States and Japan. This provided for an interest rate reduction and certain fiscal actions by Japan to lessen upward pressure on the yen, an undertaking by the United States to lower its federal fiscal deficit, and an affirmation by the two countries of their willingness to cooperate on exchange market matters. In February 1987 a further round of dis- cussions took place in a group comprising the Group of Five countries and Canada, leading to the Louvre Agreement that policies should be coordinated with the aim of stabilizing the key exchange rates. In the European Monetary System (EMS), two realign- ments of currencies participating in the exchange rate mechanism were undertaken in 1986; another took place in January 1987. In April 1986 the central rates of the Danish krone, deutsche mark, Nether- lands guilder, Belgian franc, and Luxembourg franc were revalued, while that of the French franc was devalued. A second realignment took place in Au- gust when the Irish pound was devalued. In the further realignment of January 1987, the central rates of the deutsche mark, the Netherlands guilder, the Belgian franc, and Luxembourg franc were again revalued. Since 1985, and particularly following the Plaza Agreement of September 1985 and the Louvre Agreement of February 1987, the main industrial countries have adopted more active exchange rate policies, aimed not only at the avoidance of exces- sive short-run currency instability, but also at the correction of misalignments that had developed in the preceding years. At the heart of the Plaza and Louvre Agreements were macro policy commit- ments, but they have also entailed more active official intervention in exchange markets. This has been evident in much larger reserve movements in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION these countries in 1985-86, contrasting with the steady decline in such movements between 1979- 80 and 1984, when exchange rate objectives played a less important role in monetary policy (Chart 3). The depreciation of the U.S. dollar and correspond- ing appreciations of most of the other principal currencies through 1985 and 1986 contributed to a greater variability in the principal exchange rates, as conventionally measured, than in the immediately preceding years. In developing countries, the trend toward greater flexibility in exchange rate arrangements continued in 1986. In particular, there was a further increase in the number of countries allowing their exchange rates to be determined essentially by market forces. Five countries, all in Africa, switched to indepen- dently floating arrangements —two from single cur- rency pegs (The Gambia and Ghana), two from SDR pegs (Guinea and Sierra Leone), and one from a managed floating arrangement (Nigeria). On the other hand, one country (Jamaica), whose exchange rate had been floating for two years, switched to a managed floating arrangement, while another (Uganda) switched from a floating system adopted in 1984 to a U.S. dollar peg. Taking into account these and other changes during 1986, the number of Fund members using single currency pegs in- creased from 50 to 51, the number using composite currency pegs fell from 44 to 40, while the number using more flexible arrangements increased from 54 to 59 (including 19 with market determined "inde- pendently" floating exchange rates). As in 1985, a number of developing countries used exchange rate adjustments in 1986 to strengthen their external positions. This greater flexibility in exchange rate policy, together with the depreciation of the U.S. dollar —which remains the peg or key reference currency for many developing countries — is reflected in the composite index of developing countries' real effective exchange rates. This index, which declined by some 131/2 percent during 1985, fell by another 14 percent in 1986. The depreciations were quite widespread in those countries where exchange rate adjustments were most urgent —such as the capital-importing fuel exporters —or whose currencies were broadly linked to the U.S. dollar— CHART 3 INDUSTRIAL COUNTRIES: INDICATORS OF EXCHANGE RATE VARIABILITY AND OFFICIAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET INTERVENTION, 1976-86 (Index: 1980 = 100) Source: Fund staff estimates. 1 For each individual country, currency variability in any year is measured by the average absolute monthly percentage change of its exchange rate in terms of the SDR. The measure of average currency variability shown here is the trade-weighted average of the individual country variability measures, expressed as an index. 2 Sum of means of monthly total absolute changes in gross foreign exchange reserves, expressed as an index. including exporters of manufactures in the Asian region. During 1986 the average unweighted ex- change rate of currencies with pegged arrangements that were adjusted against the respective foreign currency peg depreciated by 19 percent in nominal terms, with rates of depreciation ranging from 7 percent for the Norwegian krone to 81 percent for the Viet Nam dong exchange rate applicable to certain transactions. For members with flexible arrangements, the average (unweighted) nominal depreciation against the U.S. dollar amounted to 22 percent, ranging from 4 percent for the Dominican peso to 85 percent for the Sierra Leonean leone. Several such currencies appreciated in 1986, but by relatively small amounts. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS II. Main Developments in Restrictive Exchange and Trade Practices This chapter surveys major developments in members' restrictive practices affecting international trade and financial transactions. These practices take the form either of quantitative restrictions or of price- related measures involving implicit or explicit taxes and subsidies affecting international transactions. Most of the practices are described in detail in the chronological sections of the individual country pages in Part Two of this Report. References to the detailed descriptions in Part Two may be obtained from the tables annexed to this chapter, which provide summary descriptions and evaluations and are organized on a subject basis, i.e., by the type of practices involved. Quantitative Restrictions The record of industrial countries in the area of quantitative exchange and trade restrictions was mixed during 1986 and early 1987. Agreement was reached to launch a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, and progress was achieved in reducing certain quantitative restrictions. In many other in- stances, however, industrial countries tightened quantitative restrictions, particularly by the wider use of voluntary export restraints. Trade ministers meeting in Punta del Este, Uru- guay in September 1986 agreed to initiate a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, the eighth to be held under GATT auspices. Among its goals, the new round is intended to bring trade in agricul- ture and textiles within the principles of the GATT and to examine the possibility of establishing rules on trade in services. The new round would also seek to reach a comprehensive agreement on safe- guards (emergency measures invoked to protect industries facing injury from imports) and a strength- ening of GATT dispute settlement procedures. To facilitate achievement of these goals, the Ministerial Declaration created a Trade Negotiating Committee (TNC), a Group of Negotiations on Goods (GNG), and a Group of Negotiations on Services (GNS). Upon entering the negotiations, countries would be expected to implement a standstill and rollback of any restrictive measures not consistent with existing provisions of the GATT. At a meeting in Geneva in January 1987, further agreement was reached on the structure and preliminary timetable for the new round of discussions, including the establishment of 14 negotiating groups within the Group of Ne- gotiations on Goods. (In August 1986 Mexico be- came a contracting party to the GATT, and four other countries took steps toward membership dur- ing the year.) Industrial countries took some steps to reduce the scope of quantitative import restrictions in 1986, although relatively few changes were recorded in 10 this category. Japan replaced quantitative restric- tions on imports of leather and leather footwear with tariff quota systems. The primary tariff quota for footwear in FY 1986 would cover more than twice the volume of FY 1985 imports. Spain also eliminated and liberalized a number of import re- strictions in its accession to EC membership. In contrast to these actions, industrial countries tightened quantitative trade restrictions further on a bilateral basis in 1986. Of particular importance was the proliferation of voluntary export restraints. A number of such arrangements were known to be in effect in late 1986, of which over one half protected the markets of the EC or its member states, one third, the U.S. market, and several, the Canadian market. Exports from Japan were re- strained in about one quarter of all cases, the same as the number of cases for all other industrial countries combined. In sectoral terms, the largest number of arrangements pertained to steel products. Agreements negotiated by the EC with its 14 major suppliers allowed for a 3 percent increase in EC steel imports in 1986. In drawing up plans for its 1987 program, the EC planned to eliminate quota restrictions on four product categories, covering about 20 percent of production. The United States maintained agreements limiting steel imports from 18 countries, under a five-year program designed to reduce the share of imports from about 26 percent of domestic consumption in 1984 to a target of ISVz percent. In addition, the United States imposed an annual quota of 400,000 tons on imports of semifin- ished steel from the EC in January 1986, when the EC did not incorporate this limit in the new EC- U.S. agreement (December 1985) covering trade in other steel products. The EC retaliated with curbs on imports of fertilizer, coated paper, and beef tallow from the United States. However, a settle- ment of the dispute was reached in July 1986, whereby the United States agreed to raise the quota to 600,000 tons, and the EC lifted its retaliatory measures. In September 1986 the United States ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES requested consultations with Canada, Sweden, and Taiwan,! with a view to slowing steel imports from these sources, none of which had previously con- cluded export restraint arrangements with the United States. Taiwant responded with a "unilateral" re- straint on steel exports to the United States for the remainder of 1986, but Sweden declined to make a formal commitment, on the grounds that it would be inconsistent with GATT provisions. Export restraint agreements were also widespread in the automobile sector. Japan agreed to limit automobile exports to Canada to 240,000 units in FY 1986, representing an 18 percent increase over the FY 1985 quota. Canada also sought and obtained an agreement from Korea to hold exports to 100,000 units. Although the EC discontinued formal moni- toring of auto imports in 1985, some member coun- tries (France, Italy, Spain, and United Kingdom) maintained individual limits of various types. More- over, following a surge of exports to the EC in early 1986, Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry requested domestic auto manufacturers to restrain exports to that market. Japan, which had concluded five export restraint arrangements with the United States during 1981-85, unilaterally set a limit of 2.3 million units for the U.S. market in the year beginning April 1, 1986, the same as the previous year's quota. After a year of negotiations, the GATT Textiles Committee took a decision, on August 1, 1986, to extend the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) for a five- year period, from August 1, 1986 to July 31, 1991. This was the third renewal of the Arrangement, which first went into force on January 1, 1974. The MFA is a negotiated exception to GATT rules, which serves to regulate industrial country imports of textiles from developing countries, mainly through the implementation of individual bilateral agree- ments. However, the MFA also allows unilateral restrictions in some circumstances. Since its incep- tion, the MFA has been explicitly regarded as a temporary arrangement. The extension protocol (MFA IV) widens the range of fabrics that may be covered by the Arrangement, and to this extent it may have a further restrictive impact on world textile trade. However, some other features of the new Arrangement would tend to reduce restrictive- ness. These include an understanding that bilateral agreements should provide for increased market access to imports in overall terms, a recognition that findings of serious damage to local producers should not be based solely on the level or growth of imports, and an undertaking to provide more favorable treatment for least-developed countries, new entrants, and small suppliers. The actual impact of the new Arrangement will depend to a large extent on the nature of the bilateral agreements negotiated by participating countries. As regards the use of quantitative restrictions in other sectors, Korea agreed, in January 1986, to regulate exports of men's footwear to Canada. In January 1986 the EC agreed to eliminate a require- ment that Portugal purchase at least 15 percent of its feed grain imports from other EC countries. The decision was part of the settlement of an EC-U.S. trade dispute concerning the accessions of Portugal and Spain to the EC. In May 1986 the United States requested the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Switzerland, and Taiwant to limit exports of certain types of machine tools to the United States for national security reasons; limits were introduced in all cases except Switzerland, which declined to negotiate such an agreement. In other areas, a number of countries, including Canada, the EC and various member states, Finland, Japan, Sweden, and the United States, took steps to restrict trade with South Africa. By executive order, the President of the United States ordered an embargo on trade with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya effective February 1, 1986. In the developing countries, most changes in import restrictions in 1986 were in the direction of liberalization. A number of countries undertook wide-ranging liberalizing reforms. The Gambia, Guinea, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone eliminated their specific licensing systems, in conjunction with the floating of their exchange rates. Also in Ghana, the introduction of an auction market in foreign ex- change was followed by a reform of the import licensing system entailing the de-restriction, inter alia, of virtually all consumer goods. In Nepal, where licenses are required for imports from all countries other than India, an auction pricing system was introduced for the issuance of licenses, and a new scheme was also introduced to simplify the issuance of licenses for industrial raw materials. A number of developing countries substantially narrowed the range of imports subject to prior authorization or prohibition. In Haiti the number of import items subject to license was reduced by two thirds, and most import quotas were eliminated. In tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Korea the number of unrestricted import items, as a proportion of total import items, was raised from 88 percent to 92 percent. Mexico reduced by one quarter the number of import items subject to licensing, while Morocco eliminated its list of pro- hibited imports and reduced the coverage of its licensing requirements. In Turkey the number of import items subject to prior approval was reduced by two thirds at the beginning of 1986, and halved again at the end of the year. Restrictions were also removed over a broad range of imports in Bangla- desh (where, however, the limit on imports of fabrics was lowered), Mali (where the licensing system was simplified), Panama, the Philippines, Senegal, and Tunisia. A number of other developing countries under- took liberalizing measures of narrower scope. In Grenada specific license requirements were re- moved for certain consumer goods, while India increased the number of items imported under open general license. Pakistan increased the maximum value of licenses for capital goods imports by the textile industry. Paraguay removed certain textile imports from its prohibited list. In Trinidad and Tobago procedures for granting licenses for imports from partner countries in CARICOM were liberalized, and also specific license requirements were removed for certain imports of local concessionaire manu- facturers. Yugoslavia liberalized imports of raw materials used for medical products. The number of developing countries which inten- sified their import restrictions was relatively small. In Maldives a new licensing system was introduced, licenses being issued to each importer on the basis of the value of his imports in 1985, although addi- tional licenses could be issued to earners of foreign exchange. (Maldives substantially liberalized these restrictions in early 1987.) Elsewhere, new restric- tions affected a relatively narrow range of imports. Barbados extended its list of imports requiring licenses. In the People's Republic of China steel and pesticides were made subject to licensing, while Egypt added products to a prohibited import list. Fiji added a narrow range of items to its prohibited and restricted lists. The Netherlands Antilles intro- duced quotas for certain imports having locally produced substitutes. In Thailand the import of semifinished garments and garment parts was pro- hibited and a number of other, more narrowly defined, measures were taken; the effect on balance was to increase the restrictiveness of the system. Imports of luxury goods were suspended in the Yemen Arab Republic for the second half of 1986. 12 Import Surcharges and Import Taxation As in recent years, industrial countries made fur ther reductions in the level and coverage of most- favored-nation (MFN) import tariffs in 1986 and early 1987. Industrial countries also dismantled certain retaliatory tariff measures, or agreed not to implement planned tariff increases, following settle- ment of several important bilateral trade disputes. Despite these encouraging developments, strains remained apparent in the trade relations between various countries, as evidenced by a growing num- ber of investigations under existing legislation of alleged unfair trading practices and increased de- mands for compensation by domestic producers who claimed to be injured by imports. On January 1, 1986 Austria and the EC imple- mented, one year ahead of schedule, the remaining tariff reductions pledged under the Tokyo Round negotiations. On the same date the EC reduced tariffs on semiconductors from 17 percent to 14 percent. Also on January 1, 1986, Japan reduced or eliminated tariffs on a large number of agricultural and industrial products in accordance with the government's action program announced in July 1985. Following bilateral discussions, in January 1986, Japan and the United States agreed to elimi- nate import tariffs on certain computer parts and equipment. Japan fur ther agreed to a phased tariff reduction on veneers in 1987 and 1988. Japan re- duced tariffs on bottled wine and champagne in April 1986, one year ahead of the date originally envisaged in the action program. New Zealand reduced or eliminated import duties on many prod- ucts, including imports for the manufacturing and service sectors and a wide range of consumer goods, as part of the government's structural adjustment and trade liberalization program. Tariffs were raised in a much smaller number of instances. On January 1, 1986 the EC increased tariffs on video receivers and players from 8 percent to 14 percent. In February 1986 the United States suspended MFN tariff treatment for Afghanistan. In June 1986 the United States imposed a tariff on Canadian cedar shingles and shakes, following a determination under Section 201 of the U.S. Trade Act (escape clause) that such imports were causing in jury to the U.S. indus try. Canada reacted by increasing tariffs on a number of products up to their bound GATT rates, and added cedar bolts to its list of products subject to export controls. A number of changes in the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) were introduced or were under consideration by industrial countries during 1986- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES 87. On July 1, 1986 Australia applied a revised system of tariff preferences which provides bene- ficiaries with a uniform 5 percentage point prefer- ence on all dutiable items. Finland extended GSP coverage in 1986 to four new products for all beneficiaries and to four other products for the least- developed countries. In the United States GSP eligibility was extended in 1986 to 5 products from 3 countries, while 149 items from 11 countries were graduated from the scheme. In January 1987 the United States undertook a more extensive review of the GSP, as a result of which advanced developing countries will receive a smaller share of the pro- gram's benefits, and several countries will lose benefits entirely on the basis of an evaluation of practices in the area of worker rights. In January 1986 the EC reimposed a I2l/z percent duty on imports of a petrochemical product from Saudi Arabia after the ceiling set under the GSP was exceeded. For 1987 the Commission of the European Communities has proposed revisions to the GSP system, which would have the effect of shifting benefits in favor of less competitive suppliers. Throughout 1986 the EC and the United States were engaged in negotiations concerning the trade consequences of the accession of Portugal and Spain to the EC. Early in the year the United States sought compensation from the EC for lost grain exports which it claimed would result from Spain's adoption of the EC's variable import tariff.1 The EC denied the U.S. claim, and the United States announced that, in the absence of a satisfactory solution, it would apply 200 percent import duties to a wide range of food and beverage products of interest to EC members from January 30, 1987. The EC then agreed to tariff quota concessions on 2.7 million tons of annual grain imports (from all sources) for a period of four years, as well as tariff reductions on a number of other agricultural and industrial products. Among other actions concerning tariffs, the EC and the United States reached settlement of another dispute stemming from an earlier U.S. complaint that the EC's preferential access agreements with 12 Mediterranean countries unfairly discriminated against U.S. citrus exports. In 1985 the United States imposed a special tax on pasta imports from the EC, charging that these were indirectly subsi- dized by the EC. In retaliation, the EC imposed special duties on imports of U.S. lemons and wal- !At 1986 prices the variable du ty would raise Spam's tariff on non-EC grain imports to about 200 percent, from 20 percent before accession. nu ts. On August 10, 1986 the two parties reached a settlement whereby the EC lifted the special du ty on lemons and walnuts and agreed to tariff quota concessions on certain citrus products, and the United States lifted its special du ty on pasta imports and agreed to tariff quota concessions for a number of agricultural products of interest to EC exporters. The number of antidumping investigations initi- ated by industrial countries increased sharply during 1985-86, resulting in a rise in the number of as- sessments of provisional or definitive antidumping duties. While the iron and steel sector continued to account for more antidumping duties than any other sector, the number of investigations opened and the number of newly assessed duties in this sector declined in 1986, reflecting the proliferation of vol- untary export restraint arrangements. Among the antidumping duties applied by indus- trial countries (this listing is not exhaustive; recip- ients are listed in parentheses), Australia assessed provisional duties on passenger car tires (several developed and developing countries); Canada as- sessed provisional antidumping duties on certain products (EC, United States, Brazil), and definitive duties on a range of items (various countries). In the EC, provisional duties were assessed on pho- tocopiers (Japan), housed ball bearings (Japan), potassium permanganate (various countries), and certain iron and steel sheets and plates (Yugoslavia); definitive duties were assessed on electric scales (Japan), and copper sulfate (Yugoslavia). The United States assessed provisional antidumping duties on imports of petroleum wax candles, certain cook- ware, and welded carbon steel pipes and tubes from various developing countries; definitive antidump- ing duties were assessed on offshore platform jack- ets and piles (Japan and Korea) and 64 k DRAM microchips (Japan). The United States suspended antidumping investigations of two other Japanese microchip products, following the Japanese Gov- ernment's agreement in July 1986 to monitor prices of these exports worldwide and to improve domestic market access for microchips manufactured in the United States. The agreement proved to be highly controversial, with the EC and other countries voicing strong concerns over its provisions. More- over, in early 1987 U.S. manufacturers alleged that Japan was not abiding by the agreement, and they called on the U.S. Government to take compensat- ing measures. In 1986 changes in import taxation in the group of fuel-exporting developing countries were mixed, while in other developing countries liberalizing measures predominated. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Among the fuel exporters, Oman raised its general tariff rate, while Kuwait increased tariffs on a number of manufactured goods considered to be competitive with domestic products. Indonesia, on the other hand, reduced duties and taxes on a number of imported goods, and Nigeria abolished import surcharges. In Mexico tariff rates were reduced, while in Trinidad and Tobago the stamp duty on raw material imports was abolished. A number of nonfuel exporting developing coun- tries reduced taxes on broad ranges of imported goods. Costa Rica introduced a revised system of import surcharges, the effect of which was broadly neutral, but subsequently eliminated surcharges on consumer goods. Senegal initiated a three-year pro- gram of reforms to the system of import duties, with reductions in rates of "fiscal duty" applicable to manufactured products other than capital goods. In Sierra Leone the invoice entry and import licen- sing fees charged on all imports other than goods originating in other member countries of ECOWAS and certain specific exemptions were both reduced. Togo reduced import duties on raw materials and semifinished goods, while Uruguay lowered import surcharges and exempted a number of goods from them. Several other countries reduced duties on a nar- rower range of goods. Thus in Argentina producers of specified products in the electronics sector be- came eligible for exemptions or reductions in duties, and in addition, all inputs into the production of exports were exempted from tariffs and duties. In Brazil the financial transactions tax on the purchase of foreign exchange was either reduced or eliminated for various inputs into the electronics and computer industries; the same tax was also suspended or eliminated for certain other, generally narrow, ranges of imports. Also in Brazil tariff exemptions or reductions were introduced for certain selected imports. India reduced duties on certain imports, and also introduced a duty drawback and duty concessions for certain domestic producers. Duties on a narrow range of items were also reduced in Malaysia. Pakistan introduced a simplified structure of tariffs which entailed a halving of duties on certain raw materials, plant, and equipment. In South Africa surcharges on certain raw materials and intermediate goods were eliminated, while Zim- babwe reduced the import surcharge on certain machinery imports. Certain other tariff reductions took place in the context of international or bilateral agreements. Greece reduced its regulatory tax on imports from other member countries of the EC; this tax is to be 14 phased out by 1989. Also, Israel reduced tariffs on imports from the United States within the frame- work of the free trade agreement between the two countries. In certain other countries, there were changes in the taxation system or in tariff rates, which were mixed, but which had a liberalizing effect on bal- ance. Burundi introduced a simplified tariff structure with a narrower range of rates. Egypt introduced a new tariff structure with lower rates on average. Grenada eliminated its stamp tax, consumption du ty, and international airport levy on imports, in conjunction with the introduction of a value-added tax system. Guinea introduced a simplified tariff structure, after introducing a value-added tax. Haiti replaced several specific taxes with ad valorem tariffs, while Korea made various adjustments to its tariffs and its duty refund system. A new tariff structure was also introduced in Zaire. Ten nonfuel exporting developing countries in- creased the restrictiveness of their import tax sys- tems in 1986. Belize increased its fee on entrepot trade, while Bolivia introduced a new uniform tariff rate and narrowed the scope of duty exemptions. Dominica increased taxes on imports of petroleum and motor vehicles, and the Dominican Republic reinstated certain import taxes. Fiji raised import taxes on vehicles, petroleum products, and spirits. Madagascar imposed a new fee on import license applications, with exemptions allowed for export- ers' inputs. Nepal lowered the limit on duty-free imports by Nepalese traveling abroad, while Nica- ragua imposed a new customs fee on certain imports. Seychelles replaced its customs duties with a new trade and services tax. In Turkey there was a reduction in tariff rates, on average; but this was more than offset by increases in levies, surcharges, and stamp duties. Advance Import Deposits In 1986 seven countries, all in the developing country group, introduced or increased advance deposit requirements; in only one case were such requirements made less restrictive. El Salvador introduced prior deposit requirements for imports from outside Central America, and South Africa placed such requirements on re-exports to Zambia. Afghanistan, Guatemala, Turkey, and the Yemen Arab Republic increased their rates of ad- vance import deposits, and Turkey also largely eliminated the exemptions to its scheme. Bangla- desh broadened the scope of its margin deposit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES requirements to include palm oil imports. Mean- while, in Western Samoa advance deposits against motor vehicle imports became eligible for interest. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments In 1986 some developing countries made modifi- cations to the regulations governing the terms or procedures for import payments. As in the imme- diately preceding years, most of these changes were in the direction of liberalization. Seven countries made changes easing the terms or procedures for import payments. In Guinea foreign exchange for imports was made available through the newly established auction market, the system of import licenses having been abolished. Both Madagascar and Morocco introduced schemes easing access to foreign exchange for import pay- ments by exporters. In Madagascar a special system was introduced whereby the Central Bank would make available to exporters, for their import re- quirements, a portion of foreign exchange receipts from exports, while Morocco permitted exporters to finance imports directly from their foreign ex- change receipts. In the Philippines minimum pay- ments terms for certain imports under progressive manufacturing programs were reduced, and in ad- dition, the foreign financing requirement for capital goods imports was eliminated. Israel removed the prohibition on prepayments of suppliers' credits. In Bangladesh industrial firms were permitted to open deferred payments letters of credit for raw material imports, while finally, in the Yemen Arab Republic certain importers were permitted to use part of their foreign exchange deposits with commercial banks to open letters of credit. Measures tightening terms or conditions for im- port payments were taken in five developing coun- tries. The Dominican Republic introduced new min- imum terms for import financing. In Sudan the use of balances in foreign currency accounts to pay for imports and trade-related invisibles was prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic tightened restrictions on the unofficial exchange market. In Venezuela a new minimum financing requirement was introduced. In El Salvador the threshold above which central bank authorization is required for import payments was lowered substantially, and in addition imports from outside Central America exceeding certain limits were required to be financed by letters of credit with advance deposits. State Trading As in earlier years, there were few changes in members' state trading practices in 1986. Four countries introduced changes in the direction of liberalization, and one country introduced a new restriction. In Guinea-Bissau, Solomon Islands, and Togo the range of state monopoly trading was narrowed. Nigeria eliminated the boards which had been re- sponsible for a number of agricultural exports. Meanwhile, in Sierra Leone exports of gold were restricted to the Government Gold and Diamonds Office (GGDO), established in 1985, and the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Relatively few industrial countries modified reg- ulations governing exports in 1986. Among those that did, little discernible trend in the direction of either a tightening or easing in restrictions was apparent. In the group of developing countries, however, there was a noticeable shift toward a relaxation of controls and toward measures aimed at promoting export performance. A number of countries, for example, removed or eased export licensing requirements, improved fiscal incentives, and eliminated or reduced taxes on exported prod- ucts. In addition, the provision of export credit to exporters was in general extended either through the implementation of new schemes or by increasing access under existing arrangements. The relaxation of export surrender requirements was also used by some countries as a means of improving export incentives. On the other hand, a number of countries faced with acute foreign exchange difficulties re- sorted to tightening surrender requirements in an attempt to stem capital flight. No clear pattern among industrial countries emerged in 1986 with regard to quantitative export controls, although the developing countries in gen- eral adopted a less restrictive stance. The United States imposed prohibitions on exports to Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and South Africa; however, it abolished certain controls on crude oil exports and removed restrictions on exports to certain countries. Denmark also banned most exports to South Africa and Namibia, while Greece prohibited exports of crude oil and weapons. Japan announced a renewal of voluntary restraints on motor vehicle exports to the United States; it also announced new quotas on steel exports to the United States and introduced 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS monitoring for certain exports to the EC. Norway tightened its export licensing requirements. Among the developing countries, individual country quotas on coffee exports established under the auspices of the International Coffee Organization were sus- pended. Thailand lifted the ban on a range of export products, shortened the list of prohibited exports, and introduced greater flexibility to the regulations governing garment exports. Licensing requirements for all exports except cereals were lifted in Mali, and for a range of exported products in Malaysia. Madagascar simplified its export control proce- dures, and eliminated prior authorizations for a range of exports. Nigeria removed all export bans and most export licensing requirements, while the Philippines lifted its ban on exports of copra. Ja- maica reached an agreement with the United States that provided it with increased access to the U.S. textile market. On the other hand, limitations on exports under bilateral agreements were adopted by Hong Kong (textiles to the EC) and Nepal (textiles to the United States). A number of industrial and developing countries introduced or strengthened fiscal incentives for exports. The United States adopted a new incentive program for the export of dairy products. Export subsidies or tax exemptions were introduced or applicable rates increased in Argentina, India, In- donesia, Malaysia, and Peru. Special foreign ex- change incentives were introduced in Nicaragua, while Turkey extended the scope of the systems of rebates and premium payments on exports. On the other hand, incentives were removed or reduced in Bolivia, Colombia, Greece, Kenya, Pakistan, Sen- egal, and Tanzania, where export rebate schemes were either abolished or their coverage narrowed. There was a general trend toward a reduction in the incidence of export taxes in developing countries during the review period. Ecuador and Grenada removed all duties on exports, and the Philippines eliminated duties on all exports other than logs. Export taxes were reduced or abolished on certain products in Argentina, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Honduras, Malawi, Thailand, Uru- guay, and Togo. Export taxes were introduced in Guatemala and in Zaire, which imposed an addi- tional tax on coffee shipments. Access of exporters to credit facilities was broad- ened in several industrial and developing countries. The United States expanded the availability of credit insurance and also established a special export credit facility for short-term transactions. In Argentina and Nepal access to export credits was increased, and in Tunisia the maturity of export credits length- 16 ened. Zaire introduced regulations aimed at stream- lining procedures for obtaining export prefinancing. The only major change relating to the provision of export or exchange guarantees during the period under review involved France, which removed a requirement of forward cover for exporters. Requirements for the surrender of export pro- ceeds were modified in a number of countries, often involving a reduction in the proportion of exports to be sold at an unrealistically appreciated official exchange rate. One industrial country, France, mod- ified its export surrender regulations by extending the maximum permissible retention period. Require- ments for the surrender of proceeds from all private sector exports were abolished in Ecuador and Ni- geria and lowered in Honduras and Mexico. In Guinea-Bissau and Peru surrender requirements were eliminated for nontraditional exports and re- duced for traditional exports. Exporters in Morocco were allowed to retain export proceeds for the purchase of imported inputs. Sierra Leone intro- duced regulations suspending all retention quotas, but requiring exporters to surrender fully export earnings to commercial banks. Elsewhere, surren- der requirements were tightened in a few countries. Egypt reduced the repatriation period for export proceeds. Liberia introduced a 25 percent surrender requirement. Suriname required that all export pro- ceeds be surrendered to the central bank rather than to commercial banks, and Yugoslavia raised the export surrender rate to 100 percent. One country, Suriname, tightened administrative procedures by requiring all exports to be covered by letters of credit. Current Invisibles and Transfers During 1986 a marked trend emerged in both industrial and developing countries toward reduced recourse to restrictions on current invisible pay- ments and unrequited transfers. Such liberalizations often took the form of increased foreign exchange allocations for overseas travel, but a number of countries also removed or eased restrictions on other invisible transactions, such as interest pay- ments. A few countries, however, tightened controls on invisibles and transfers in response to mounting foreign exchange pressures. Four industrial countries —Austria, Finland, France, and Iceland—raised foreign exchange al- locations for purposes such as travel and gift re- mittances. Among the developing countries, Sierra Leone raised allowances for all invisibles, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES allocations for travel were raised in Bangladesh, Chile, Guinea, Malta, Mauritius, Portugal, Syria, and Zambia. Israel increased allowances for gift payments and overseas s tudy, Sri Lanka raised education allowances, and Cyprus increased allow- ances for study in certain European countries. Limits for travel, study, and medical remittances were introduced in El Salvador and reduced for travel in Algeria and the People's Democratic Re- public of Yemen. Regulations governing outward transfers or pay- ments for services rendered by nonresidents were liberalized in a number of industrial and developing countries. France removed restrictions on the trans- fer of assets by emigrants and raised ceilings on transfers, and Finland increased emigrant's allow- ances. Controls on all current payments to nonres- idents were eased in The Gambia, while restrictions on different types of investment income payments were removed in Greece and Yugoslavia and relaxed in Argentina, Botswana, and Burundi. Only a few developing countries intensified controls on outward transfers. In Iraq limits on the remittances of resi- dent nonnational workers in the private sector were cut by nearly two thirds. Peru introduced a two- year suspension of foreign exchange sales for private sector debt service payments and the transfer of profits, and extended for a period of one year quantitative limits on official debt service payments. Limits on the import or export of foreign and domestic currency by residents or nonresidents were raised in three industrial countries (Austria, France, Italy). One developing country (Bangla- desh) increased the amount of foreign exchange nonresidents are permitted to export. Other restrictive measures affecting current in- visibles and transfers included restrictions by the United States on exports of services to Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, imposition of a tax on the sale of foreign exchange for travel (Brazil), and elimination of a preferential exchange rate for receipts of miners' remittances (Mozambique). In Greece exchange control regulations were tightened by requiring the surrender of tourism receipts. External Payments Arrears The Fund's data on members' external payments arrears include arrears that have been caused by exchange restrictions on current payments or trans- fers, as well as arrears on financial obligations of which the obligor is the government or a resident in the country in question and which are overdue for balance of payments or fiscal reasons.2 An increase in arrears adversely affects the country's creditworthiness, with the result that access to normal means of international financing is frequently curtailed. A further consequence is that the cost of international credit, as well as of imported goods and services, becomes higher than would otherwise be the case for most borrowers. In view of the particularly adverse consequences for the country maintaining arrears and for the international pay- ments system, performance criteria for the elimi- nation or substantial reduction of payments arrears in an orderly and nondiscriminatory manner con- stitute an important element of members' economic programs supported by the use of the Fund's re- sources.3 Moreover, the incurrence of arrears and related policies have been subject to careful scrutiny in the context of Article IV consultations with the Fund. The Fund has also consistently followed the practice of not approving under Article VIII, Sec- tion 2(a) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement ex- change restrictions evidenced by arrears on current international payments, except when a satisfactory program for the reduction or the elimination of arrears is in place. From a peak of SDR 43 billion recorded at the end of 1984, external payments arrears of Fund members are estimated to have declined by SDR 3 billion to SDR 40 billion as of end-1986.4 However, on the basis of provisional data, arrears increased in 1986, and a total of 57 countries, equivalent to 2Payments arrears evidence an exchange restriction under the Fund's Article VIII, Section 2(a) or Article X IV, Section 2, when the authorities of a country are responsible for undue delays in approving applications or in meeting bona fide requests for foreign exchange for current international transactions as defined in Article XXX (d). Accordingly, when a government or a government en t i ty, whose financial operations form part of the budgetary process, fails to meet an external payments obligation due to a lack of domestic currency resources, the resulting arrears are considered to evidence defaults by the government rather than exchange restrictions. Similarly, arrears incurred by governments participating in a common central bank are treated as defaults when they are due to the government's inability to obtain domestic currency with which to purchase needed foreign exchange from the common central bank. Although these dis- tinctions are relevant for the purposes of Articles VIII and XIV, in the context of the Fund's policies on the uses of its resources, defaults and other forms of arrears involving current and capital •payments are viewed as having the same broad macroeconomic character and consequences, and are therefore treated in the same manner. All references to payments arrears in this section relate to arrears as defined in the broadest sense. 3A review of the implementation of Fund policies on members' external payments arrears was undertaken by the Executive Board in November 1986, the major conclusions of which are reported below in this section. The conclusions of earlier reviews of Fund policies were summarized in Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1983 and 1985. 4Recent data on arrears are subject to considerable revision. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS about two fifths of the Fund's developing country membership had arrears outstanding at the end of 1986; this number has been rising continuously since 1976, emphasizing the difficulty of eliminating ar- rears once they have been incurred. From end-1985 to end-1986 existing arrears increased in 29 coun- tries: Antigua and Barbuda, Benin, Brazil, Chad, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Grenada, Guatemala, Guy- ana, Haiti, Jamaica, Liberia, Mali, Morocco, Mo- zambique, Nigeria, Peru, Poland, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Su- dan, Suriname, Tanzania, and Viet Nam. Arrears were eliminated in 3 countries only: St. Lucia, Senegal, and Yugoslavia; and were reduced in 15: Argentina, Bolivia, Central African Republic, Congo, El Salvador, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Madagas- car, Paraguay, Uganda, Venezuela, Western Sa- moa, Zaire, and Zambia. Three countries —Cape Verde, Malawi, and Syria —incurred payments arrears for the first time; in Cote d'lvoire and Gabon arrears emerged again after they had been eliminated. (In early 1987 Cape Verde made arrangements for the elimination of its arrears.) Two other countries (Iraq and Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) are understood to have incurred arrears in 1985-86. Data are un- available for six countries (Afghanistan, Burkino Faso, Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, and Nicaragua) that had payments arrears at the end of 1985, and it is unlikely that in any of these instances they were eliminated during the course of 1986. In the case of those countries for which infor- mation is available, arrears incurred against official and multilateral creditors were estimated at just under one half of total external payments arrears in 1986. About two thirds of the arrears to official creditors was concentrated in four countries. Payments arrears are a manifestation of a broader phenomenon of deviations from scheduled external payments obligations. The magnitude of these de- viations at a point in time, which may be viewed as overall deferrals of payments obligations, may be measured by aggregating arrears and rescheduled debt service payments that remain to be paid at that time. Reliable data for overall deferrals are not available for 1986; however, for 1985 they show almost a twofold increase to SDR 215 billion follow- ing a 13 percent rise in 1984. The proportion of members' external payments arrears settled through cash payments has varied in accordance with foreign exchange liquidity require- ments as determined by anticipated cash needs for import payments and, more generally, by medium- 18 term balance of payments projections. In cases where international reserve positions and medium- term balance of payments projections have been relatively strong or improving, the liquidation of arrears through cash payments has at times been significant in relation to total arrears reduction. In others, smaller cash payments have reflected the authorities' intention of meeting overdue obligations despite depleted reserve levels and a weak balance of payments outlook. Of the countries that elimi- nated or reduced arrears in 1985, the latest year for which data are available, seven did so entirely through cash payments and two entirely through rescheduling. In those countries that relied on a mix of cash payments and rescheduling, cash payments generally represented between one quarter and one half of the total. In 1986, 18 Fund member countries that had payments arrears outstanding concluded multilat- eral debt renegotiations with official and commercial creditors. In a fur ther three cases, negotiations with creditors had been initiated but not concluded by the end of the year. The Executive Board review of the Fund's poli- cies with respect to members' external payments arrears undertaken in November 1986 noted that, as of mid-1986, 21 countries had adjustment pro- grams supported by stand-by arrangements in effect, all of which were in the upper credit tranches. Of these 21 countries, 13 had external payments arrears at the time of program approval. In all cases, these 13 programs provided for a phased elimination (10 programs) or reduction (3 programs) of payments arrears during the program period through a com- bination of rescheduling and cash payments. In eight of the former cases, arrears were required to be eliminated in the first year of the program period. In four of the countries with arrangements, a coun- terpart deposit requirement in local currency was introduced as a means of providing more compre- hensive information on arrears and sterilizing the liquidity impact associated with the incurrence of arrears. Multiple Currency Practices Article VIII, Section 3 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement prohibits a member from engaging in, or permitting its fiscal agencies to engage in, any discriminatory currency arrangements or multiple currency practices without the approval of the Fund. Such practices may involve the existence of separate exchange rates, the application of exchange rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES taxes or subsidies, inadequate payment of interest on advance import deposits and counterpart depos- its against payments arrears, significant exchange rate spreads, and broken cross rates. The Fund approves multiple currency practices only when a well-conceived plan is in place to bring about their elimination during a specified and relatively short period of time. In many instances, the staff assists the authorities in formulating such a plan, usually in the context of adjustment programs supported by the use of Fund resources. The Executive Board most recently conducted a review of the Fund's experience and policies with respect to multiple exchange rate regimes in April 1984 and February 1985.5 The trend that emerged in 1985 toward reduced reliance on multiple currency practices continued in 1986. During this period, 19 member countries either eliminated or simplified multiple currency practices. New multiple currency practices were introduced in seven countries, but in two of these cases, they were for a transitional period only and were intended to formalize multiple currency prac- tices that had existed but had not previously been officially recognized. Multiple currency practices were eliminated in seven countries, although in some of these cases other multiple currency practices were retained. Chile removed the subsidy on most debt service payments, and the Dominican Republic abolished exchange surcharges on both traditional and non- traditional exports. Egypt eliminated the commer- cial bank rate, while Guatemala abolished the ex- change tax on certain trade and invisible transactions. The dual exchange rate systems in Guinea and Uganda were virtually unified, and Tanzania abol- ished an export rebate scheme. During the course of 1986, a number of countries made progress in either simplifying multiple cur- rency practices or reducing the distortions associ- ated with them. Afghanistan depreciated the ex- change rate for coverting karakul export proceeds. In Ecuador surrender requirements for private sec- tor export proceeds were abolished and private sector transactions transferred to the free market. Public sector transactions, including petroleum ex- ports and public debt service payments continued to be conducted at the intervention market rate. This rate was adjusted in accordance with move- ments in the free market rate; and the spread 5For a detailed discussion of this review, see Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1986, page 30. See also IMF Survey, Vol. 14, No. 13, June 24, 1985. between the two rates was less than 2 percent in the period October-December 1986. A prior import deposit scheme was introduced in March 1986 but subsequently abolished in August 1986. In addition to the measure described above, Guatemala re- structured its three-tier exchange rate system by replacing the auction market with a regulated mar- ket; it transferred to this and the banking market all transactions from the official market, except service payments on registered debt and certain drug imports. El Salvador unified the official and parallel markets, but as a transitional arrangement, certain export proceeds and specified import and arrears payments continued to be transacted at the previous official exchange rate. In Grenada, the tax levied on sales of foreign exchange was reduced from 5 percent to 2 percent. Guyana depreciated the exchange rates applicable to gold and rice exports. South Africa extended eligibility for in- vestment in "financial rand" balances by nonresi- dents to cover nonquoted securities and the acqui- sition of property. In Nicaragua the official exchange rate was devalued by 60 percent in local currency terms, although interest payments on debt already contracted continued to be made at previous ex- change rates; in addition, "mixed" rates were es- tablished by allowing a portion of the proceeds from nontraditional exports and certain invisible trans- actions to be surrendered at the free market rate. Paraguay allowed a large proportion of export re- ceipts to be moved to the free market by reducing minimum export surrender requirements. In Peru a range of transactions (including import payments, profit remittances, and travel expenses) were trans- ferred from the official to the parallel market; in addition, surrender requirements were eliminated for nontraditional exports and reduced for tradi- tional exports. Sudan announced that 30 percent of all convertible currency export proceeds except those from cotton and gum arabic exports were to be surrendered at the commercial bank rate; pre- viously, all such proceeds had to be sold in the official market. Venezuela simplified its multiple exchange rate system by transferring a wide range of trade and debt service transactions to a common exchange rate. One other country modified an existing multiple currency practice during the course of 1986. Turkey increased the proportion of foreign exchange re- quests for imports subject to prior deposit require- ments and eliminated most of the preferential pro- visions that were in force. During 1986 multiple currency practices were introduced in the following countries. In Egypt, a 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS new exchange rate for the sale of USAID funds to the private sector was formally established; previ- ously, these funds had been converted at the central bank rate. Syria established new multiple currency practices: a "promotion" exchange rate for a range of transactions, including travel and medical ex- penses, a rate for airline tickets, and another rate for transfers abroad by airline companies. Vene- zuela announced an optional exchange rate guar- antee scheme for the servicing of certain registered private debts. Two countries introduced multiple currency practices as a transitional step toward major exchange reform that involved unification of the exchange rate system. Ghana adopted a dual exchange market in which all transactions, except exports of cocoa and refined oil, petroleum imports, and specified official service payments, were con- ducted in an auction market. Nigeria introduced a transitional dual exchange system that involved establishment of a "second-tier" foreign exchange market for handling all transactions except debt service payments and a portion of the proceeds from oil exports. Bilateral Payments Arrangements and Countertrade Practices At the end of 1986, the total number of bilateral payments arrangements maintained between Fund members was 69, compared with 50 at the end of 1985.6 A total of 72 bilateral payments arrangements were maintained between Fund and non-Fund mem- bers, compared with 89 at the end of 1985. The changes during 1986 are attributable primarily to the accession of Poland to the membership of the Fund. At the end of 1986, Poland maintained 11 bilateral payments arrangements with Fund mem- bers and an additional two with non-Fund members; during the year it terminated an agreement with Viet Nam. Excluding those involving Poland, the number of bilateral payments arrangements in- creased by three in 1986. This increase consisted of six new bilateral payments arrangements con- cluded between Fund members. Mozambique en- tered into arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe; Argentina with Colombia; and Mad- 6Bilateral payments arrangements maintained between Fund members constitute practices subject to Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement when they involve exchange restrictions or multiple currency practices. The jurisdictional implications of bilateral payments arrangements are summarized in Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1985, page 40. 20 agascar with Mauritius. In addition, Nepal, a Fund member, concluded an arrangement with Czecho- slovakia, a non-Fund member. A total of three bilateral payments arrangements, all involving Ro- mania and other Fund members (Malta, Nepal, and Viet Nam), were terminated in 1986. Detailed information on the value of trade con- ducted under bilateral payments arrangements is not available for most Fund members maintaining such arrangements. On the assumption that the value of trade between Fund members maintaining bilateral payments agreements represents the max- imum value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements, the total value of such trade was equivalent to about 1/6 of 1 percent of the value of world trade of Fund members in 1986. It is, however, most likely that the value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements is lower than the above ratio suggests, because all trade between Fund members maintaining bilateral payments arrangements is not usually settled under the arrangements; in many instances, only the trade of a group of products specified in an accompanying trade agreement is settled under bilateral payments arrangements. On the other hand, in some cases nontrade transactions are also effected through the bilateral clearing accounts. In recent years, there has been increased resort in some countries to trading practices known as countertrade arrangements.7 These arrangements have taken a variety of forms, but basically they involve barter or quasi-barter arrangements between private firms and/or government entities, such as foreign trade organizations, under which the seller is obligated to accept specified goods or services from the buyer. Even though countertrade arrange- ments are for the most part carried out by private firms without official sanction, several countries have recently issued guidelines to be followed by individual entities while engaging in countertrade, or regulations making countertrade mandatory for certain international transactions. The more com- mon countertrade arrangements are known to have involved exchange of crude oil and military equip- ment for manufactured goods, including military equipment. Developing countries that have engaged in countertrade arrangements at the private and public sector levels include Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, Greece, Guyana, Indonesia, the Islamic 7In September 1982, the Executive Board reviewed the Fund's policy with respect to bilateral payments and countertrade arrangements. The conclusions of that review were summarized in Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1983, pages 44-45. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE EXCHANGE AND TRADE PRACTICES Republic of Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Ni- geria, Turkey, Uganda, Venezuela, and Viet Nam. These countries have concluded countertrade ar- rangements with private firms in the industrial coun- tries or centrally planned Eastern European coun- tries aimed at promoting exports of primary products (including crude oil), and in some instances, serv- icing of external debt. Official requirements for private sector participation in countertrade giving rise to exchange or trade restrictions are known to exist in a few developing countries. The emergence and growth of countertrade since the late 1970s may be attributed to several factors. Balance of payments difficulties and the scarcity of foreign exchange have led a number of developing countries to seek new financing techniques. The pressures to find markets for surplus goods and difficulties experienced in gaining access to the markets of the industrial countries for certain pri- mary and manufactured products have also prompted these countries to enter into countertrade arrange- ments that commit industrial country exporters to purchasing a given quantity of products over a specified period. In certain cases, countertrade in the form of buy-back arrangements is seen —by both industrial and the more advanced developing coun- tries —as a means of securing reliable sources of essential raw materials while exporting equipment and technology that have become outdated at home. In the centrally planned Eastern European coun- tries, countertrade is often seen as underpinning the planning process by reducing the uncertainties in the domestic production plan that result from dif- ficulties in forecasting foreign demand precisely. It is also a means of achieving bilateral balancing of trade, which is an objective of foreign trade policy in most of these countries. Shortages of convertible foreign exchange and the desire to stimulate the inflow of technology from abroad have provided further incentive for Eastern European countries to enter into countertrade arrangements. For exporters engaging in trade with centrally planned Eastern European countries, including those in industrial countries, countertrade may represent the only means to guarantee payment for goods delivered, or to overcome protective trade policies in those countries. Countertrade agreements involving pe- troleum exports have become particularly common in recent years, especially during periods of weak price conditions in the international oil market and when countries are experiencing difficulties in ser- vicing debt. However, oil exported under counter- trade arrangements is now included in individual OPEC member quotas, and recourse to such ar- rangements is likely to have been reduced as a consequence. Although the volume of trade conducted under countertrade arrangements does not appear to be large in relation to world trade, the proliferation of such practices is detrimental to the maintenance of the multilateral system of trade and payments. Countertrade practices may entail many of the undesirable restrictive and discriminatory practices traditionally associated with bilateralism. Where countertrade practices result from a direct govern- mental limitation on the use, availability, or transfer of exchange as such, they may entail exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices subject to approval under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement.8 Capital Controls The trend toward greater liberalization of capital controls among the industrial countries that had been evident for several years continued in 1986, albeit at a slower pace. This trend has, by and large, reflected greater reliance on price-related measures, particularly the use of exchange rate and interest rate policies, as a means of curbing capital outflows. It has also been indicative of the growing awareness that controls tend to become increasingly suscep- tible to evasion over time, as is evidenced in large- scale capital outflows, and that their effectiveness is thereby diminished. In some cases, the disman- tling of capital controls has been undertaken in the wider context of deregulation of the domestic finan- cial system. For the group of developing countries, there was on balance a slight shift toward a liber- alization of capital controls for these reasons, de- spite the continuation of balance of payments difficulties. In 1986 changes to regulations affecting capital transactions among both industrial and developing countries typically involved modification of rules governing foreign transactions of commercial banks, the relaxation of controls on resident and nonresi- dent foreign currency accounts, and the removal or easing of controls on portfolio investment. In ad- dition, reflecting the greater appreciation of the potential benefits from attracting direct investment, a number of countries, relaxed restrictions on, or 8Further discussion of the types and consequences of coun- tertrade practices may be found in Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1986, pages 33-34. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS provided greater incentives for, foreign participation in domestic enterprises. In general, the rules governing international cap- ital transactions undertaken by commercial banks were liberalized in industrial countries, but tightened in developing countries. Austria, Finland, France, Italy, and Sweden relaxed regulations limiting the availability of either foreign credit to residents or foreign or domestic credit to nonresidents. Swit- zerland removed all taxes on interest earned on medium-term interbank deposits. Ceilings on banks' "spot-against-forward" foreign currency positions were raised in Italy, but in Ireland limits on banks' forward positions were effectively lowered. The United States prohibited banks and others from undertaking certain transactions in the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and with South African government agencies. Among the devel- oping countries, access to foreign credits was re- stricted in El Salvador and Korea; Korea also reduced the maximum allowable maturity for de- ferred payments letters of credit. Limits were placed on the foreign currency positions of commercial banks in The Gambia, Honduras, and Turkey; such limits were eliminated or reduced in the Dominican Republic and Indonesia. A number of countries (Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Finland, India, Italy, Mexico, and Spain) eased restrictions on foreign exchange and nonresident accounts. On the other hand, El Salvador required that certain foreign currency accounts be liquidated. Almost all the modifications to rules governing portfolio investment reported by both industrial and developing countries during the review period in- volved the elimination or liberalization of existing restrictions. With regard to portfolio investments overseas by residents, Austria, Finland, France, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Switzerland removed certain controls on purchases of foreign securities, while France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden eased restrictions on transac- tions in cash loans and certain financial instruments, such as foreign securities and currency options. In Switzerland the stamp tax on new foreign bond issues was reduced and certain of these issues were exempted from withholding tax. Argentina removed controls on amortization payments on debt con- tracted for investment projects that were deemed to increase exports. With regard to capital inflows arising from portfolio investment by nonresidents, restrictions were lifted in Chile and the Netherlands and eased in Australia. India eased controls on remittances of dividends payable on equity invest- ments in Indian companies, and Pakistan eased controls on underwriting by foreign banks. Mean- while, Norway imposed restrictions both on resi- dents' purchases of unquoted investment funds and equities, and on the opening by nonresidents of krone accounts. The trend evident in 1985 toward the liberalization of direct investment regulations continued during the period under review. Three industrial countries, Australia, Austria, and Spain, eased restrictions on inward direct investment. France eliminated certain controls on outward foreign inves tmen t, although it also placed limits on foreign participation in newly privatized companies. Sweden removed certain im- pediments to the financing of direct investment overseas. A ban on investment in South Africa was imposed by the United States. Ten developing countries (China, Hungary, Malaysia, Netherlands Antilles, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Sao Tome and Principe, Syria, and Venezuela) introduced or expanded incentives for specific types of direct investment. Various measures involving exchange rate guar- antees and forward cover facilities were imple- mented during the review period. The Netherlands abolished licensing requirements for forward trans- actions not conducted through banks. The exchange rate guarantee scheme in Argentina was modified to allow for the early cancellation of contracts, while a similar arrangment in Pakistan was broad- ened to cover certain debt service payments. Gold As in recent years, few Fund members introduced new regulations concerning procedures for the ex- port and import of gold or for dealings in domestic holdings of gold. On March 27 Bangladesh allowed the exportation of gold jewelry under the Jewelry Export Scheme. The exportation of gold was re- stricted in June by Sierra Leone to the GGDO and the Bank of Sierra Leone. On October 27 the United States prohibited the importation of gold coins minted in South Africa under the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES III. Developments in Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Rates Fund members are required to notify the Fund of changes in their arrangements for determining their exchange rates, in accordance with members' obligations under Article IV, Section 2(#), of the Articles of Agreement. Surveillance of exchange arrangements of members by the Fund, as required under Article IV, Section 3, is conducted in the context of regular consultations with members and during the intervening period between consulta- tions, as changes in such arrangements are assessed by the staff and communicated to the Executive Board. Under the provisions of Article IV, Fund members have the right to maintain exchange ar- rangements of their choice; members also have certain obligations regarding the communication of these arrangements to the Fund. To facilitate implementation of the Fund's sur- veillance over exchange rate policies, members' exchange arrangements are classified under three broad groupings, as follows: (1) pegged arrange- ments, comprising currencies that are pegged either to another currency or to a currency composite, including the SDR, and currencies that display limited flexibility against another currency (quasi- pegs); (2) a middle group of managed flexibility, comprising currencies whose values are adjusted according to a set of indicators other than partner country exchange rates alone, or are maintained under a system of managed floating; and (3) floating (essentially market determined) arrangements, in- cluding cooperative arrangements in the European Monetary System, and independently floating re- gimes. The basic rationale for the classification of members' exchange arrangements is the extent and form of the flexibility that these arrangements per- mit, and this criterion is also applied to subcate- gorize each of these broad groupings in Table 2. In 1986, 62 changes in exchange arrangements occurred and were communicated by members to the Fund, including measures that resulted in ad- jus tmen ts in exchange rates, and a number of changes in the form of composite pegs. In addition, developments in members' effective (trade-weighted) exchange rates are monitored continually on the basis of available data to facilitate the symmetry of treatment of pegged and flexible exchange rates; the Executive Board is notified of changes in excess of 10 percent on a "real" inflation-adjusted basis when they occur. Fifty-three such notifications of changes in real effective rates since the preceding consultation with the member (or previous notifi- cation) were made in 1986,9 compared with 30 notifications in 1985. Of a total of 13 ^classifications of arrangements in 1986, 9 were in the direction of greater flexibility. A major new development in this period was the adoption of independently floating exchange rates by developing countries. Five developing countries (Ghana, Nigeria, The Gambia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone) introduced exchange arrangements by which their exchange rates are essentially determined by market forces. Uganda and Jamaica, on the other hand, ceased to maintain a freely floating system. At the end of 1986, independently floating exchange rates were therefore maintained by 13 developing country members: Bolivia, Dominican Republic, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Lebanon, Nigeria, Philippines, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Uruguay, Zaire, and Zambia. In addition, four other countries adopted more flexible arrangements: one moved from a peg to the U .S. dollar to a peg to the SDR (Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), and three moved from a peg to a currency composite to a system of managed flexibility (People's Republic of China, Madagascar, and Tunisia). Only four members moved to reduced flexibility: Jamaica moved from an independent float to a managed float; El Salvador from a managed float to a U.S. dollar peg; Viet Nam from an SDR peg to a U .S. dollar peg; and Uganda ceased floating independently and pegged its currency to the U.S. dollar. In addition to these changes, two new members informed the Fund in 1986 of their exchange arrangements: Kiri- bati was classified within the group of countries whose currencies are pegged to a single currency (the Australian dollar is the official currency of Kiribati), and Poland within the group of countries whose currencies are pegged to a currency com- posite other than the SDR. At the end of 1986, 96 (98) members had pegged or quasi-pegged exchange arrangements, 27 (25) members had managed flex- ibility, and the remaining 27 (25) members had arrangements under which most or all of their currency relationships were independently floating 9Australia, Bahrain, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Dji- bouti, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, Liberia, Malawi, Malaysia, Mexico, Mozam- bique, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Phil- ippines, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Tu rkey, Uganda, Un i ted Arab Emirates, United States, Viet Nam, Western Samoa, Zambia. More than one notification was made in a number of these countries. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N> 4^ Table 2. Exchange Rate Arrangements as of March 31, 1987 l U.S. dollar Single currency French franc Pegged Currency composite SDR Other Other Bhutan (Indian rupee) Kiribati (Australian dollar) Lesotho4 (SAR) Swaziland (SAR) Burma Bu rundi Iran, Islamic Rep. of Jordan Kenya6 Libya7 Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Tonga Seychelles (Australian Vanatu dollar) Antigua and Lao People's Democratic Rep.4 Barbuda The Bahamas4 Liberia Barbados Mozambique Belize Nicaragua4 Oman Djibouti Dominica Egypt4 El Salvador Ethiopia Grenada Guatemala4 Guyana4 Haiti Honduras Iraq Panama Paraguay4 St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Suriname Syrian Arab Rep.4 Trinidad and Tobago Uganda Venezuela4 Viet Nam4 Yemen Arab Rep. Yemen People's Democratic Rep. Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Central African Rep. Chad Comoros Congo Cote d'lvoire Equatorial Guinea Gabon Mali Niger Senegal Togo Flexibility Limited vis-a-vis a Single Currency or Group of Currencies Single Cooperative currency2 arrangements3 Afghanistan4 Bahrain5 Qatar5 Saudi Arabia5 United Arab Emirates5 Belgium4 Denmark France Germany Ireland Italy Luxembourg4 Netherlands Adjusted a rm rH ing to a set of indicators Brazil Chile4 Colombia Madagascar Portugal Somalia4 More Flexible Managed floating Independently floating Australia Bolivia Canada Dominican Republic The Gambia Ghana Guinea Japan Lebanon Maldives New Zealand Nigeria4 Philippines Sierra Leone South Africa4 United Kingdom United States Uruguay Zaire Zambia Argentina China, People's Rep. of Costa Rica4 Ecuador Greece Guinea- Bissau Iceland India8 Indonesia Jamaica Korea Mauritania Mexico4-9 Morocco Pakistan Peru10 Spain Sri Lanka Tunisia Turkey11 Western Samoa Yugoslavia Algeria4 Austria Bangladesh4 Botswana Cape Verde Cyprus Fiji Finland6 Hungary Israel Kuwait Malawi Malaysia6 Malta Mauritius Nepal Norway Papua New Guinea Poland Romania Singapore Solomon Islands Sudan4 Sweden12 Tanzania Thailand Zimbabwe o w 1 I>%w o 1 > o w Xo ffl 2 ow K § I1& •No current information is available relating to Democratic Kampuchea. 2In all cases listed in this column, the U.S. dollar was the currency against which exchange rates showed limited flexibility. 3This category consists of countries participating in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System. In each case, the exchange rate is maintained within a margin of 2.25 percent around the bilateral central rates against other participating currencies, with the exception of Italy, in which case the exchange rate is maintained within a margin of 6 percent. 4Member maintains dual exchange markets involving multiple exchange arrangements. The arrange- ment shown is that maintained in the major market. 5Exchange rates are determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to the SDR, within margins of up to ± 7.25 percent. However, because of the maintenance of a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, these margins are not always observed. ^j^e exchange rate is maintained within margins of ± 2.25 percent. ?The exchange rate is maintained within margins of ± 7.5 percent, 8The exchange rate is maintained within margins of ± 5 percent on either side of a weighted composite of the currencies of the main trading partners. 9As of March 31, 1987 the spread between the two exchange rates was less than 1 percent, 10Member maintains a system of advance announcement of exchange rates, "The Central Bank establishes its selling rate daily and the buying rate is set at Vi. percent below the selling rate. Commercial banks must use the Central Bank's selling rate, but are free to set their own buying rate. l2The exchange rate is maintained within margins of ± 1.5 percent, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES (including the EMS currencies).10 (Positions as of end-1985 are shown in parentheses.) From the inception of the present classification system in December 1981 to December 1986, the proportion of Fund members with "More Flexible" arrangements and those members maintaining a cooperative arrangement under the EMS rose from 28 percent to 36 percent; those with single currency pegs and "Flexibility Limited vis-a-vis a Single Currency" arrangements declined from 47 percent to 37 percent, and those with both currency com- posite arrangements increased from 25 percent to 26 percent (although the use of the SDR peg declined somewhat). Developments Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements In 1986, 13 members notified the Fund of changes in their exchange arrangements that involved re- classification. Nine countries instituted changes in their exchange arrangements that resulted in in- creased flexibility.11 With effect from January 1, 1986, China informed the Fund that, in view of the substantial adjustments of the yuan since 1984, and also on account of price and wage reforms currently in progress, the original peg of the yuan to a basket of currencies was replaced by a system of managed floating. Since then, the exchange rate of the yuan has been adjusted frequently, including a change on July 5 from Y 3.1983 - US$1 to Y 3.7036 - US$1, representing a depreciation of 13.6 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar. The exchange arrangements of China were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: Currency Composite" to the category "More Flexible: Managed Floating." The Gambia introduced a floating exchange rate system effective January 20. During the first month of operation of the new system, the official exchange rate was set at 7.45 dalasi per pound sterling, representing a depreciation of 49 percent relative to the official rate prevailing prior to January 20. During most of this period, the parallel market loExcluding the arrangements of Democratic Kampuchea, for which information is not available. 11 In the first quarter of 1987 there was a continued trend toward more flexible arrangements. Maldives and Mauritania changed from pegging to a currency basket to a market-deter- mined float and a managed float, respectively, and Peru adopted a managed float with pre-announcement of the exchange rate. Guyana and Mozambique altered the form of their currency pegs, adopting pegs to the U.S. dollar. Israel's arrangements were reclassified as less flexible. exchange rate was reportedly in the order of D 10- 11 per pound sterling. Since end-February 1986, the official exchange rate has depreciated further. The parallel exchange rate is only slightly more depre- ciated than the official rate, and the volume of exchange transactions carried out in the parallel market appears to have been reduced significantly, with an accompanying increase in transactions ef- fected through the commercial banks. While initially the official exchange rate was set weekly at the average of exchange rates quoted by commercial banks for customer transactions during the preced- ing week, more recently some actual interbank transactions have begun to take place at the weekly fixing session. Under the new system, the authorities announced the removal of existing exchange restric- tions applied by the Central Bank. The exchange arrangements of The Gambia were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: Other Currency" to the category "More Flexible: Independently Floating." Ghana instituted a foreign exchange auction sys- tem in which the exchange rate for most transactions is freely determined by supply and demand at a second window. Transactions settled at the first window fixed exchange rate of C 90 = US$1 for a temporary period are, on the supply side, surrender of foreign exchange earnings from exports of cocoa and residual oil, and, on the demand side, provision of foreign exchange for imports of petroleum and essential drugs and for debt service payments on official debt contracted before January 1, 1986. In addition, new "A" licenses will henceforth be issued, derestricting virtually all nonconsumer goods imports for which foreign exchange is available in the auction. The first auction on Friday, Septem- ber 19, resulted in a depreciation of 29.7 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar, from C 90 - US$1 to C 128 - US$1. The exchange arrangements of Ghana were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar" to the category "More Flexible: Independently Floating." Guinea introduced changes in the exchange ar- rangement that yielded two separate reclassifica- tions in 1986. The first change coincided with the introduction of a new monetary un i t, the Guinean franc, which replaced the syli at par with effect from January 6. It was possible to exchange sylis for Guinean francs until March 31, 1986. Also with effect from January 6, the official exchange rate, previously pegged at 24.69 sylis to SDR 1, was changed to a fixed relationship to the U.S. dollar at the rate of GF 300 - US$1. This represented a depreciation of 92.5 percent in terms of the U.S. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS dollar. The official exchange rate applied to public sector and mining company transactions. All other transactions were effected at the second window exchange rate (the marginal bid rate) set at weekly auctions. This action resulted in the reclassification at that time of Guinea's exchange arrangements from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar." With effect from June 1, the dual exchange rates were unified at the level of the auction rate, and the franc now floats at a unified level determined through weekly auctions. In order to maintain a small spread between the parallel market rate and the official rate, the authorities abolished the import licensing system and took measures to facilitate access to the auction market. The exclusion of alcoholic beverages and tobacco was lifted, and the opening of uncovered letters of credit is now authorized. Furthermore, the coverage of private sector service transactions eligible for foreign exchange purchases in the auction market was extended from October 1 to purchases for debt service, travel, and the transfer of dividends. In addition, the Central Bank took steps to ensure that payments for locally supplied goods and services are made in domestic currency. The exchange ar- rangements of Guinea were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar" to the category "More Flexible: Independently Floating." The Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya informed the Fund that, with effect from March 18, the Libyan dinar is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1 - SDR 2.80. The buying and selling exchange rates of the Libyan dinar are, also with effect from March 18, determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the rates of exchange for the SDR against major currencies. The new ex- change rate represented a devaluation of the Libyan dinar of 4.2 percent against the U.S. dollar. The exchange arrangements of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar" to the category "Pegged: SDR." Madagascar notified the Fund that, with effect from August 11, the exchange rate of the Malagasy franc was devalued by 20 percent in foreign currency terms against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged. Against the U.S. dollar, the new rate established on August 11 was FMG 755.53 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 20.1 percent from the previous rate of FMG 603.44 = US$1. Subse- quently, the exchange rate has been adjusted quar- terly by the change in the consumer price index for low-income households over the previous quarter; the first adjustment took place by end-December on the basis of the price movements between 26 July 1 and September 30. In the month of December, the Malagasy franc was, on five separate occasions, devalued by a cumulative 5.2 percent in local cur- rency terms. In terms of the U.S. dollar, the ex- change rate on December 5, the day before the first devaluation, was FMG 742.11 - US$1, and on January 2, the first business day following the last adjustment, FMG 769.81 = US$1, representing a cumulative depreciation of 3.6 percent in the month of December. As a result, the exchange arrange- ments of Madagascar were reclassified from the category "Pegged: Currency Composite" to the category "More Flexible: Adjusted According to a Set of Indicators." Nigeria informed the Fund of the adoption, with effect from September 29, of a package of reform measures that involved floating of the exchange rate for most transactions and exchange and trade lib- eralization. The exchange rate of the naira is, for a transitional period, determined under a dual ex- change rate system. The official exchange rate, which is managed flexibly against the U.S. dollar, has been retained in this period for the servicing of external obligations incurred prior to the enactment of the new exchange market, and for official pay- ments and transfers to multilateral institutions and Nigerian embassies abroad. The corresponding sup- ply of foreign exchange to this market is from official sources and from a portion of oil receipts. On September 26 the official (first-tier) exchange rate was changed to N 1.54 - US$1 from N 1.33 - US$1, representing a depreciation of 13.6 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar. In the transitional period, the Nigerian authorities intend to continue this policy of depreciating the official exchange rate in order to achieve convergence with the exchange rate in the second-tier market, following which all external transactions will take place at a market- determined exchange rate. In the second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM), introduced concurrently, transactions not eligible for the official exchange rate (some 70 percent of all foreign exchange transactions) take place at market-determined exchange rates. The major source of foreign exchange in this market is that part of oil receipts not required for the payments described above that take place in the first-tier market. Oil receipts enter the SFEM through the medium of a weekly auction organized by the Central Bank of Nigeria in which the authorized foreign exchange dealers and the Central Bank of Nigeria participate. The Government and govern- ment agencies also bid in this market for their foreign exchange needs other than the servicing of debt incurred up to September 29. The second-tier ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES market combines the weekly price-setting in the auction with the operation during the week of interbank and customer exchange markets, in which the exchange rate is also determined by supply and demand. To assist in ensuring the competitiveness of the market in the initial stages, limits are specified on the foreign exchange positions of individual dealers, and there is a 1 percent maximum spread between buying and selling exchange rates for cus- tomer and interbank transactions. Private sector foreign exchange receipts may be sold freely in the SFEM; all previous requirements for surrender to the Central Bank have been abol- ished. In addition, exporters may retain their foreign exchange receipts in domiciliary accounts which are not then subject to exchange controls. For foreign exchange transactions other than export receipts, all exchange controls other than those relating to capital outflows were abolished. For the purpose of administering the system of capital con- trols on outflows, certain limits have been estab- lished up to which exchange is automatically pro- vided for invisibles payments. Purchases within these limits are subject to verification by foreign exchange dealers as agents of the Nigerian Govern- ment that they are for bona fide current transactions. As with imports, verification is on an "ex post" basis, i.e., depending on the payments arrange- ments, based upon documentation obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. In addition, amounts beyond the limits are approved by the Minister of Finance if he is satisfied that they are not for the purpose of transferring capital abroad. Beyond the specified limits, applications for capital transfers abroad may also be authorized if they are judged not to be destabilizing to the SFEM. During the first quarter of 1987, in the weekly auction about US$50 million on average was tendered for sale by the Central Bank, and the average market-clearing (marginal) exchange rate was ap- proximately N 3.7 = US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market-determined rates are permit- ted between foreign exchange dealers and their customers, with the proviso that these transactions are the counterpart of an underlying import trans- action, and that the maturity of the cover does not extend beyond six months. As of September 29, Nigeria also undertook a wide-ranging liberalization of its trade and price control systems. Import licensing, the 30 percent import surcharge, export bans and duties, and the systems of price controls operating at the factory gate have all been abolished, and other restrictive practices have been relaxed. The exchange arrangements of Nigeria were thus reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Man- aged Floating" to the category "More Flexible: Independently Floating." Sierra Leone notified the Fund that, with effect from June 27, the exchange rate of the leone was floated, and commercial banks are able to buy and sell foreign exchange on a freely negotiable basis. The Bank of Sierra Leone holds weekly sessions with the commercial banks at which weekly indic- ative exchange rates are determined, to be applied during the following week for all official transac- tions, including valuation for customs du ty. The first weekly fixing under the new system took place on July 11. The benchmark rate (which was replaced by the freely floating rate, beginning with the first week's fixing) was set at Le 14 = US$1, representing an initial depreciation of 65 percent in foreign currency terms relative to the average of the pre- vious official fixed rate of Le 5.7 = US$1 and the parallel market rate of about Le 18-20 - US$1, which prevailed before the float. At the same time, provisions for foreign exchange retention privileges and restrictions on current account transactions and inward remittances of capital were abolished. The exchange arrangements of Sierra Leone were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "More Flexible: Independently Floating." Tunisia informed the Fund that it would follow a flexible exchange rate policy, with a view to at least maintaining the real effective value of the dinar at its end-August level. The depreciation of the dinar was accelerated in the first half of 1986, and on August 19 an additional depreciation of 10 percent was effected. The exchange arrangements of Tunisia were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: Currency Composite" to the category "More Flex- ible: Managed Floating." Four countries instituted changes in their ex- change arrangements that resulted in reduced flexibility. El Salvador has notified the Fund that, with effect from January 22, the official exchange system has been unified, and the colon has been pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of C 5 - US$1. This represents a devaluation of 50 percent against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, from the previous rate of G 2.5 - US$1. The exchange rate of the colon has remained unchanged since then. The weighted average value of the colon during the first half of January was about G 3.80 = US$1, and thus, the exchange rate adjustment of January 22 involved a depreciation of about 24 percent in both nominal and real effective terms. In the accompanying Mon- 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS etary Board resolution, the Central Reserve Bank was instructed to maintain the real effective ex- change rate unchanged during 1986. As a transitional arrangement, the following export proceeds con- tinue to be surrendered at the previous exchange rates: (1) export proceeds which were not surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank prior to Janu- ary 1,1986, as stipulated in the corresponding export permit; and (2) proceeds of coffee exports from harvests prior to October 1, 1985.12 The previous official exchange rate also continues to apply to the following payments: (1) external arrears on all pay- ments with other Central American countries ac- cumulated prior to January 21,1986, external arrears on service payments outside Central America ac- cumulated up to December 31, 1985, and arrears on payments outside Central America related to con- firmed or expired letters of credit up to January 21, 1986; (2) payment obligations for approved imports of medicine financed by letters of credit or by cash payment and imports of capital goods which were cleared through customs prior to January 21, 1986; (3) payments for all capital goods for which letters of credit were opened and authorized by the Central Reserve Bank prior to January 22, 1986, and which were funded from sources other than the Central Reserve Bank's foreign lines of credit; and (4) payments for all other imports with letters of credit or by cash payment which were cleared through customs prior to November 1,1985. The commission charged for sales of foreign exchange by the Central Reserve Bank to the Government and commercial banks was lowered, while those charged to the public were more than doubled. The new commis- sions are as follows: (1) 0.5 percent (or 6 0.025 = US$1) on sales of bank notes to the Government and commercial banks; (2) 1 percent (or G 0.05 = US$1) on sales of checks and 1.5 percent (or C 0.075 = US$1) on sales of bank notes to the public. Import controls were intensified, and the authorities also adopted a number of complementary fiscal, monetary, and wage measures. The Central Reserve Bank continued to authorize foreign ex- change and to issue import permits on the basis of the availability of foreign exchange in accordance with the following list of priorities: (1) basic foods, medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines, and oil products; (2) raw materials and other intermediate goods needed for production, including machinery, equipment, and replacement parts; (3) payments for medical expenses abroad, 12The proceeds of coffee exports for the 1985/86 harvest will be surrendered at the new official rate, even if these exports were shipped prior to January 21, 1986. 28 foreign s tudy, travel, and pensions; (4) debt service; and (5) all other goods, services, transfers, and movements of capital. Specific monthly allocations of foreign exchange are set for the import items listed in categories (1) and (2) above and for the cash payment of certain imports of less than US$5,000; the other items listed above are satisfied on the basis of available foreign exchange. Special foreign currency accounts opened prior to January 21, 1986 are not permitted to be increased (except in the case of nonresidents and industrial firms exporting to countries outside the Central American Common Market), but they may be maintained for a period of up to one year. The Monetary Board in- structed the Central Reserve Bank to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credit by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. Also, the Central Reserve Bank was authorized to establish a fund in U.S. dollars for servicing external public debt, which is to be supplied with receipts from export proceeds. In light of these measures, the exchange arrangements of El Salvador were reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Managed Floating" to the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar." Since November 1985, the Jamaican dollar has been effectively pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of J$5.5 = US$1. The authorities of Jamaica have informed the Fund that they will manage the ex- change rate flexibly, with a view to preventing a significant erosion of Jamaica's international com- petitiveness. As a result of this information, the exchange arrangements of Jamaica have been re- classified from the category "Independently Float- ing" to the category "Managed Floating." In the context of the presentation of the FY 1986/ 87 budget on August 23, and with effect from that date, the dual exchange rate system of Uganda introduced on May 28 was abolished, and the exchange rate system unified at the pegged rate of U Sh 1,400 - US$1. Under the previous dual exchange rate system, a more appreciated ("prior- ity") exchange rate of U Sh 1,400 = US$1 was applicable to most import transactions, to payments of external debt service obligations, and to tradi- tional export items, and a more depreciated ("mar- ket") exchange rate of U Sh 5,000 = US$1 was applicable to foreign exchange purchases to finance nonbasic consumer items and to the export of services and nontraditional commodities.13 Foreign 13The "priority" exchange rate of U Sh 1,400 = US$1, introduced on May 28, represented a 5 percent appreciation in U.S. dollar terms over the previous single rate of U Sh 1,470 = US$1, which had superceded the foreign exchange auction system in February 1986. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES exchange continues to be allocated on an adminis- trative basis. In light of this information, the ex- change arrangements of Uganda were reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Managed Float- ing" to the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar." Viet Nam informed the Fund that the exchange rate of the dong against the U.S. dollar for certain invisible transactions (primarily inward remittances and tourism) was changed on November 1, from D 15 = US$1 to D 80 = US$1. For other trans- actions the rate of D 15 = US$1 was maintained. The November 1 adjustment represents a devalua- tion of 81.3 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar, and was the third to take place since the currencies of the north and south were unified in 1978. Since that time the dong has been devalued vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar by a cumulative 99 percent. The exchange arrangements of Viet Nam were thus reclassified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar." Developments in the Exchange Rates of Industrial Countries Adjustments of the central rates within the Eu- ropean Monetary System were implemented on two separate occasions in 1986. With effect from April 7, the bilateral central rates of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder were revalued by 3.0 per- cent each; those of the Belgian franc, the Luxem- bourg franc, and the Danish krone were revalued by 1.0 percent each; and that of the French franc was devalued by 3.0 percent.14 The bilateral central rates of the Irish pound and the Italian lira remained unchanged. The notional ECU rates for the pound sterling and the Greek drachma were lower by 11.9 percent and 28.5 percent, respectively, reflecting developments in the market rates of the currencies since the last realignment of July 22, 1985. The central rates were realigned again with effect from August 4, entailing a downward adjustment (depre- ciation) of 8 percent in the bilateral central rates of the Irish pound vis-a-vis the currencies of the other countries that participate in the EMS. All other bilateral central rates remained unchanged from the levels set in the realignment of April 7. The notional ECU central rates for the pound sterling and the Greek drachma were lower by 7.2 percent and 1 percent, respectively, reflecting developments in 1 Calculated as the percentage change against the group of currencies whose bilateral parities remained unchanged in the realignment. the market rates of the currencies since the April 7 realignment. As a result of these adjustments, the central rate of the Irish pound in terms of the ECU declined by 6.8 percent while the central rates of the other EMS currencies increased by about 1.3 percent in terms of the ECU. A further realignment took place on January 12, 1987, entailing an upward adjustment of the bilateral central rates of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder of 3 percent, as well as an upward adjustment of the central rates of the Belgian and Luxembourg francs of 2 percent. On this occasion, the notional ECU rates for the pound sterling and the Greek drachma were lower by 8.2 percent and 9.1 percent, respec- tively, reflecting developments in the market rates of the currencies since the realignment of August 4, 1986. The U.S. dollar depreciated sharply in the first quarter of 1986 in effective MERM terms.15 Follow- ing a 4 percent depreciation in February, the U.S. dollar leveled off in March and April, then gradually depreciated further to a level 13 percent below that of December 1985 by end-year. From end-1985 to end-1986 only the Australian dollar depreciated in terms of the U.S. dollar (2.4 percent on an end- year basis) (Table 3). Over the same period, the deutsche mark had the largest appreciation against the U.S. dollar in 1986 (26.8 percent), while the Canadian dollar had the smallest appreciation (1.2 percent). As in 1985, there were sizable movements in the nominal effective exchange rates of the currencies of most industrial countries in 1986. In effective (MERM) end-of-year terms, the largest exchange rate appreciation was that of the Japanese yen (15.7 percent). Other appreciations ranged from 10.3 per- cent (Federal Republic of Germany) to 1.8 percent (France), while the currencies of the following five countries depreciated: Australia (11.3 percent), Can- ada (4.8 percent), New Zealand (10.6 percent), United Kingdom (13.6 percent), and United States (13.1 percent). Developments in Exchange Rate Arrangements in Other Countries Among those members whose currencies are pegged to the U.S. dollar, eight countries imple- 15Based on the Fund's multilateral exchange rate model (MERM), in which the implicit weighting structure takes account of the relative importance of the country's trading partners in its direct bilateral relationships with them, competitive relationships with "third" countries in particular markets, and estimated elasticities affecting trade flows. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table 3. Exchange Rate Movements of Currencies of Industrial Countries with "Cooperative" or "Independently Floating" Arrangements (December 31, 1985-December 31, 1986) Exchange rate Currency Units per U.S. dollar (End of Period) MERM Index (1980 - 100) Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Dec. 31, 1984 Dec. 31, 1985 1.4686 1.5042 50.36 40.41 1.3975 1.3805 8.9690 7.3425 7.5610 6.4550 2.4613 1.9408 0.8042 0.7145 1,678.5 1,358.1 200.5 159.1 2.7720 2.1920 2.0060 1.9102 0.6923 0.6782 73.8 65.0 80.9 85.4 96.2 91.8 85.0 92.2 74.2 75.5 100.8 111.2 81.9 82.0 66.7 71.9 140.2 162.2 100.4 109.7 72.71 65.0 82.5 71.3 135.6 117.8 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation (-) In terms of U.S. dollar MERM -2.4 -11.9 + 24.6 + 1.2 + 22.2 + 17.1 + 5.6 -4.6 + 8.5 + 1.8 + 26.8 + 10.3 + 12.5 + 23.6 + 0.1 + 7.8 + 26.0 + 15.7 + 26.5 + 9.3 + 5.0 + 2.1 -10.61 -13.6 -13.1 Australia (dollar) Belgium - Luxembourg (franc) Canada (dollar) Denmark (krone) France (franc) Germany, Fed. Rep. of (deutsche mark) Ireland (pound) Italy (lira) Japan (yen) Netherlands (guilder) New Zealand (dollar) United Kingdom (sterling) United States (dollar) Source: International Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics. Nominal effective exchange rate. mented changes in their exchange arrangements or in their exchange rates during the period under review (Table 4). Egypt informed the Fund that some transactions were taking place through the central bank pool at rates differing from LE 0.7 = US$1, which was the rate previously applicable to all such transactions and had been unchanged since January 1, 1979. The exchange system was simplified in July 1986 when the official commercial bank rate (buying: LE 0.83 - US$1) was eliminated. By July relatively few transactions were taking place at that rate, as most transactions in the commercial bank pool had been officially designated to take place at the more depreciated premium commercial bank rate, which fluctuated narrowly around LE 1.35 = US$1. After the elimination of the official commercial bank rate, the premium rate was renamed the authorized com- mercial bank rate, and all transactions in the com- mercial bank pool were stipulated to take place at the authorized rate. However, the public sector banks are now allowed, from time to time, to 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES Table 4. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Pegged to Single Currency, SDR, or other Currency Composites, 1986 Country (Currency) Botswana (pula) Burundi (franc)2 Guyana (dollar) Hungary (forint) Kenya (shilling) Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (dinar)4 Malawi (kwacha) Norway (krone) Oman (rial) Paraguay (guarani) Poland (zloty) Romania (leu) Tanzania (shilling) Vanuatu (vatu) Viet Nam (dong)13 Yemen Arab Republic (rial) Date of Change January 20 July 10 August 8 September 3 February 28 September 23 February 28 June 30 May 1 August 16 May 12 January 25 December 10 December 10 December 10 December 10 September 1 September 1 July 1 June 20 February 13 October 23 November 1 January 7 November 26 Peg Other composite SDR Other composite Other composite Other composite SDR SDR Other composite Other composite U.S. dollar U.S. dollar6 U.S. dollar7 U.S. dollar8 U.S. dollar9 Other composite Other composite Other composite SDR SDR U.S. dollar U.S. dollar U.S. dollar Domestic Currency Units per U.S. Dollar or SDR1 New rate per Old rate Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation ( - ) (in Terms of ^ LJ .S. Dollar, SDR, or Currency Composite) 122.70 141.00 6.033 17.74 18.58 0.36 1.805 6.925 0.3454 320.00 240.00 240.00 160.00 161.235 91.0010 17.41 12.43 30.005 110.00 122.00 15.00 6.49 7.24 141.00 144.40 14.00 18.58 19.14 0.38 2.00 7.43 0.3845 550.00 400.00 400.00 240.00 200.00 95.00 16.00 11.00 40.00 122.00 142.00 80.00 7.24 8.99 + 1.00 -13.00 - 2.40 -56.93 - 3.00 - 8.00 - 4.52 - 2.93 - 7.0 - 10.00 - 6.86 -10.17 -41.82 -40.00 -40.00 -33.33 -19.39 - 4.21 + 8.8111 + 13.0012 -25.00 - 9.84 - 14.08 -81.25 - 10.43 - 19.47 1 The currency units and magnitude of devaluations are expressed in terms of the currency peg. 2 In addition, four devaluations of 1.2 percent each were effected monthly through December 1986. 3 Exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar which is applicable only to official purchases of gold. 4 The exchange arrangements of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya were reclassified with effect from March 18 from the category "Pegged: U.S. dollar" to the category "Pegged: SDR." 5 Exchange rate and percentage change expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar. 6 Exchange rate applies to minimum surrender of export proceeds to the Central Bank. 7 Exchange rate applies to imports of petroleum and petroleum products. 8 Exchange rate applies to public sector purchases of goods and nonfactor services, with certain exceptions. 9 Exchange rate applies to external debt service and capital transactions of the public sector. 10 Exchange rate for the transferable ruble. 11 Commercial rate. 12 Noncommercial rate, which applies to a small share of external transactions. 13 Exchange rate for certain invisible transactions. The exchange arrangements of Viet Nam were reclassified in the second quarter of 1986 from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "Pegged: U.S. dollar." purchase foreign exchange from remittance agents abroad at a more depreciated rate approved by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade (in the range of LE 1.60-1.65 = US$1) and to sell the receipts to the public sector at a rate reflecting their purchase rate. On June 5 Guatemala restructured the three-tier exchange rate system that had been in effect since November 1984. At the same time, the authorities eliminated the exchange tax that applied to certain current transactions, and introduced a variable ex- port tax and other economic measures. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS From November 1984 to June 4, 1986, Guatemala maintained a three-tier exchange rate system in- volving an official market for traditional exports, essential imports, and official transactions in which the quetzal was pegged at Q 1 = US$1; an auction market for certain priority imports and invisibles, in which the value of the quetzal was determined by a bidding process; and a banking market for all other transactions, in which the quetzal fluctuated within a band set by the Bank of Guatemala. In addition, there were a number of mixed exchange rates for export proceeds, and as of August 1985 an exchange tax of 3.5 percent was applied to certain current account transactions. Under the new exchange arrangements, which were approved by the National Congress on May 6, the scope of the official market was reduced, and the previous auction market was replaced with a regulated market having substantially wide cover- age; also the previous mixed rates for export sur- render were eliminated. The new exchange arrange- ments, which remain complex, involved a depreciation of the transactions weighted average value of the quetzal to around Q 2.3 = US$1 from about Q 1.9 = US$1 under the previous system. In the case of exports, the value of the quetzal depre- ciated from about Q 1.95 - US$1 to Q 2.53 - US$1; however, if account is taken of the variable export tax that was introduced together with the new exchange arrangements, the exchange rate for exports moved from about Q 1.95 = US$1 under the previous system to Q 2.15 = US$1. The official market, which previously handled about 55 percent of total exports and about 35 percent of total imports, now applies only to the service of external public debt and private debt (registered with or guaranteed by the Bank of Guatemala) disbursed before the new arrangements came into effect, and to certain imports for the manufacture of generic drugs. No exchange proceeds are surrendered in the official market. The official exchange rate continues to be fixed at Q 1 - US$1. The newly established regu- lated market handles most trade and capital trans- actions. All exchange receipts from exports outside of Central America, official inflows, and inflows from registered private borrowing are channeled through the regulated market. In the case of exports destined to the Central American region, about 60 percent of such export proceeds must be surren- dered in the regulated market, while the rest may be channeled through the banking market. On the payments side, all imports that previously were paid in the official and auction markets and service payments on public and registered private 32 debt disbursed after the new arrangements came into effect are channeled through the regulated market. The exchange rate in the regulated market was initially set at Q 2.5 = US$1 (buying), and is adjusted from time to time by the Monetary Board, taking into consideration, inter alia, developments in the net international reserves of the Bank of Guatemala and movements of the exchange rate in the banking market. The banking market is main- tained for imports considered to be of relatively low priority, and the exchange rate continues to fluctuate to a maximum and minimum band established by the Monetary Board. In May the exchange rate in the banking market averaged around Q 2.97 = US$1 and had moved within a band of Q 2.70 and Q 3.00 - US$1 set by the Bank of Guatemala. In the case of trade transactions not required to be channeled through the regulated market, pay- ments and receipts can be negotiated either in the banking market or through other channels outside the banking system. This decision of the Monetary Board effectively allows traders to operate private markets for other Central American currencies, which may give rise to exchange rates for the quetzal different from those in the other three exchange markets. With the introduction of the new exchange arrangements, the authorities eliminated the 31/2 percent exchange tax that applied to certain trade and invisible transactions, and a tax on all exports except petroleum was introduced. The export tax is applied to the gross value of export sales, with different rates for nine categories of exports, which vary in proportion to international prices; tax rates for bananas and meat are set in specific terms. The export tax is assessed on the local currency value of exports as determined at the time of exportation, and is to be paid at the latest when the exchange receipts are surrendered in the banking system. The export tax is to be maintained for 1 year and then phased out over a period of 34 months by cumulative reductions in the applicable tax rates of 3 percentage points a month. Nicaragua notified the Fund that, with effect from February 1, a more depreciated official rate was adopted for most transactions, along with the es- tablishment of mixed exchange rates for certain export proceeds and invisible receipts.16 Most ex- change transactions are conducted at an official exchange rate of the cordoba of C$70 = US$1, with the following exceptions: (1) 25 percent of proceeds from nontraditional exports (exports other than 16Mixed exchange rates were applied to the surrender of certain export proceeds in 1984, but were eliminated in February 1985. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES coffee, cotton, sugar, sesame, and beef) and 50 percent of certain invisible receipts (not directly linked to trade) and cash transfers from abroad can be used for approved imports of goods and payments for medical expenses, travel, student, or similar expenditures abroad, or can be converted at the "free" rate;17 (2) imports of petroleum are to be handled at C$28 = US$1; (3) the servicing of external debt disbursed prior to February 8, 1985 is to be made at C$10 = US$1; (4) the servicing of foreign debt disbursed during the period February 8, 1985 to May 31, 1986 is to be made at the exchange rate applicable to imports and services financed with the proceeds of the loans; and (5) transactions not included or not satisfied in the official market will be handled at the "free" rate. It is estimated that these changes involved an implicit nominal devaluation of the cordoba of about 64 percent on average (in foreign currency terms). Foreign exchange receipts transferred from the official to t h e' 'free" market are estimated to amount to US$30-40 million on an annual basis. Including foreign exchange payments, the share of the "free" market in total current account transactions is es- timated to increase to 3-4 percent. Oman notified the Fund that, with effect from January 25, the peg of the rial Omani for the U.S. dollar was changed from RO 0.3454 - US$1 to RO 0.3845 = US$1. The new buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are RO 0.384 and RO 0.385, respectively. This adjustment of the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar, which had been maintained unchanged since 1973, represents a 10.2 percent depreciation of the rial Omani vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. The authorities indicated that the decision to change the exchange rate was taken in view of declining international oil prices and their impact on the balance of payments. Following an announcement on September 22 of changes which were to be made in the exchange rate system, the Central Bank of Paraguay on December 10 effected a change in the official ex- change rate for the minimum surrender of export proceeds to the Central Bank from (3 320 - US$1 to (3 550 = US$1; in the exchange rate for the imports of petroleum and petroleum products from (3 240 = US$1 to (3 400 = US$1; in the exchange rate for public sector purchases of goods and nonfactor services, with certain exceptions, from 17Until used for approved foreign payments or converted at the "free" rate, the funds in question are deposited in a special U .S. dollar current account in the recipient's name. Alternatively, a document can be issued by the central bank for the relevant amount of foreign exchange. (3 400 = US$1; and in the exchange rate for external debt service and capital transactions of the public sector, from (3 160 = US$1 to (3 240 - US$1. Peru informed the Fund that, with effect from July 25 and November 27, several new regulations affecting the parallel market for foreign exchange have been introduced. A large number of merchan- dise trade transactions were transferred from the official foreign exchange market to the controlled financial market for foreign exchange on July 25, with additional transfers on August 27 and Novem- ber 27. They also announced on November 27 that the inti would be depreciated by a minimum of 2.2 percent per month against the U.S. dollar, starting in 1987. The Central Reserve Bank remained com- mitted to maintaining in the controlled financial markets a premium on the official exchange rate of at least 25 percent. The surrender requirement in the official exchange market was reduced from 70 percent to 60 percent for nontraditional exports on July 25 and eliminated on November 27. For mineral exports by small- and medium-sized mines, it was reduced from 90 percent to 70 percent on July 25 and to 45 percent on November 27. The surrender requirement for other traditional exports (excluding oil) was temporarily increased from 90 percent to 95 percent on July 25 but then lowered to 65 percent on November 27. For oil exports it was raised from 90 percent to 100 percent on July 25 and again lowered to 90 percent on November 27. Under the existing exchange control system, ex- port proceeds are required to be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues exchange cer- tificates with a maturity o f t en days for the full value of the exchange surrendered. Prior to July 25, exchange certificates were issued for 90 percent of the value of receipts from traditional exports and for 70 percent of the value of receipts from nontraditional exports. In addition, with effect from November 27, if exporters of most nontraditional exports choose to convert their foreign exchange receipts into intis instead of holding exchange certificates, they are entitled to a subsidy of 10 percent of the amount being converted. The subsidy amounts to 20 percent for certain nontraditional exports. As a result of the new regulations, the exchange rate system now involves an official rate, a controlled financial mar- ket rate, three mixing rates associated with the surrender requirements of 45 percent, 65 percent, and 90 percent for certain transactions, and two new rates associated with the subsidies of 10 percent and 20 percent for nontraditional exports. Venezuela implemented changes in its exchange arrangements on two separate occasions in 1986. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS With effect from January 1, foreign exchange transactions comprising payments for a limited number of essential imports and related services and certain remittances to students abroad, which had access to the exchange rate of the Venezuelan bolivar of Bs 4.30 = US$1 exchange rate, and all current and capital transactions of the national petroleum and iron ore companies, which had been effected at Bs 6.00 = US$1, were to be effected at the Bs 7.50 = US$1 exchange rate. As a result, Venezuela's exchange system comprised several rates. The first exchange rate, of Bs 7.50 = US$1, was applicable to most trade and other current transactions, to capital inflows of the public sector, and to external debt service of the Central Govern- ment. Central Bank sales of foreign exchange at this rate must be approved by the Exchange Control Agency (RECADI). A second exchange rate, of Bs 4.30 = US$1, was applicable to amortization payments of certain public and private external debts, and to interest payments on such debts that had accrued before December 31, 1983 and had not been paid. Public debts eligible for this exchange rate comprised all debts of the decentralized public sector outstanding as of February 18, 1983, exclud- ing those debts that had been assumed by the Central Government. Private sector debts eligible for this exchange rate were defined as the net foreign liability position of the debtor as of February 18, 1983 and comprised those debts outstanding which had been registered by RECADI. The third rate was the free market exchange rate applicable to all other trans- actions including tourism, imports for which ex- change authorization had not been issued by RECADI, exports other than oil and iron ore, payments of interest and amortization of nonregistered private debt, and new private capital inflows. In December 1985 the free market exchange rate fluctuated around the monthly average of Bs 14.75 = US$1. With effect from December 6, 1986, the system was modified, moving the weighted average rate from Bs 8.82 = US$1 to about Bs 12.40 - US$1, a depreciation of close to 30 percent. This step restored the exchange rate of the bolivar in real effective terms to the level of the mid-1970s, com- pleting the reversal of the appreciation that took place until early 1983. The new exchange system consists of the following rates: (1) A new rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1 is now applicable to most com- mercial and financial transactions, including most imports previously effected at the exchange rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1, and exports and imports that were previously channeled through the free exchange market; i.e., the new rate applies to about 70 percent 34 of imports and nonfactor services and all exports other than oil and iron ore. This rate also applies to government and capital transactions and to new private capital flows.18 (2) The existing Bs 7.50 = US$1 exchange rate remains applicable to "essen- tial" imports and related services, amounting to 25 percent of imports, or about US$1.5 billion, and to trade and services of the state-controlled oil and iron ore sectors. Essential imports include food and medicines, imports for the agricultural sector, tex- tiles and footwear, and paper products. This ex- change rate also applies to the payment of import credits outstanding as of December 8, 1986, esti- mated at about US$1.2 billion, and to the servicing of the external debt of public enterprises and of registered private debt, provided an exchange rate guarantee premium is paid. (3) The coverage of the free market rate was sharply reduced, as it now applies only to tourism and nonregistered private capital flows. Transactions in the free market are now estimated to represent about 5 percent of all foreign exchange transactions, compared with about 15 percent, previously. In the weeks following these modifications to the exchange system, the free market exchange rate appreciated to around Bs 20- 22 = US$1, then depreciated to the Bs 25 - US$1 level of November 1986. The Yemen Arab Republic informed the Fund that, with effect from January 7, the midpoint exchange rate of the Yemeni rial against the U.S. dollar in the official market was changed from YRls 6.485 - US$1 to YRls 7.24 - US$1, representing a 10.4 percent depreciation against the U.S. dollar. Reflecting continued pressure on the external pay- ments position, the differential between the official exchange rate and the exchange rate in the free market had widened to 23 percent during the month immediately preceding the January 7 devaluation. The Yemen rial was further depreciated on Novem- ber 26 from YRls 7.24 = US$1 to YRls 8.99 = US$1, representing a l9l/2 percent depreciation against the U.S. dollar. Among those members whose currencies are pegged to the SDR, three countries implemented changes in their exchange arrangements or exchange rates. Kenya notified the Fund that, with effect from February 28, the central exchange rate of the Kenya shilling was changed from KSh 17.74 - SDR 1 to KSh 18.58 = SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 18Previously, only the domestic value added of nominal exports as estimated by the Foreign Trade Institute (ICE) was channeled through the free exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES 4.5 percent. With effect from June 30, the shilling was further adjusted from KSh 18.58 - SDR 1 to KSh 19.14 = SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 2.9 percent. The Kenya shilling is pegged to the SDR within margins of 2.25 percent on either side of the central rate. With effect from May 1, the Central Bank of Libya introduced margins of ±7 .5 percent within which the exchange rate of the Libyan dinar may fluctuate around the fixed relationship to the SDR. Also with effect from that date, the exchange rate was depreciated to the maximum extent permissible within the new margins, i.e., to LD 1 = SDR 2.60465. The official buying and selling exchange rates of the Libyan dinar for U.S. dollars and other currencies are determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar/SDR rate. Vanuatu implemented changes in its exchange arrangements on two separate occasions in 1986. With effect from February 13, the vatu was devalued from VT 110 = SDR 1 to VT 122 - SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 9.8 percent. With effect from October 23, the vatu was further deval- ued from VT 122 - SDR 1 to VT 142 - SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 14.1 percent. Both actions were taken to reverse appreciation of the vatu against a number of currencies, in particular, the Australian dollar, the New Zealand dollar, and the U.S. dollar. Among those members whose currencies are pegged to a currency composite other than the SDR, ten countries implemented changes in their ex- change rates or exchange arrangements. Botswana notified the Fund that with effect from January 20, the relative weight of the rand in the pula basket was reduced to 65 percent, while that of the SDR was increased to 35 percent. Since January 9, 1985, the pula had been pegged to a currency basket in which a weight of 75 percent was assigned to the rand and 25 percent to the composite of currencies included in the SDR. The exchange rate of the pula was revalued by 1 percent against the old basket before the new basket took effect. The Botswana authorities took these mea- sures in view of their assessment of the strength of the balance of payments position of Botswana, and the need for some appreciation of the pula vis- a-vis the rand in order to moderate the impact of the acceleration of inflation in South Africa on the cost of living in Botswana. With effect from September 3, Guyana devalued the implicit exchange rate applicable to official purchases of gold from G$6.03 - US$1 to G$14 - US$1, a devaluation of 56 percent. The official exchange rate remained at G$4.30 = US$1. Hungary introduced, with effect from January 24, a modification in the composition and the calculation of the basket of currencies on the basis of which the exchange rate of the Hungarian forint against convertible currencies (currencies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea) is derived. The ele- ments of the modification can be detailed as follows: (1) the basic method of a weighted basket, which had been applied up to the above date, remains unchanged; (2) weights attached to each of the currencies in the basket are calculated under the new system on the basis of the currency composition of Hungary's export and import payments in con- vertible currencies; (3) the basket consists of those ten convertible currencies that have a share of more than 1 percent in Hungary's export and import payments in convertible currencies (i.e., Austrian schilling, deutsche mark, French franc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilder, pound sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, and U.S. dollar). It is expected by the Hungarian authorities that, as a result of the modification of the currency basket, fu ture movements in the foreign exchange rate will reflect more closely the behavior in the foreign exchange markets of the currencies of Hungary's major trading partners. With effect from February 28, the forint was devalued by 3 percent in terms of the basket. In addition, with effect from Septem- ber 23, the forint was further devalued by 8 percent vis-a-vis the basket. With effect from August 16, the exchange rate of the Malawi kwacha was devalued by 9.9 percent, from MK 1.8045 - US$1 to MK 2.0031 - US$1. Mozambique notified the Fund that the premium buying rate previously fixed for Mozambican miners working in South Africa has ceased to be applied since March 1. Norway notified the Fund that, with effect from May 12, the krone was devalued as a result of a change in the central value of the Norwegian ex- change rate index from 100 to 112 with a margin of 2.25 percent on either side of the central value. In terms of the U.S. dollar, the exchange rate was changed from NKr 6.9175 - US$1 to NKr 7.4275 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 6.9 percent. Poland notified the Fund that, with effect from September 1, the value of the zloty was depreciated against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged for purposes of determining exchange rates against 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS convertible currencies. In terms of the U.S. dollar, the exchange rate was changed from Zl 161.23 = US$1 (the rate effective at end-August) to Zl 200 - US$1, representing a depreciation of 19.4 percent. At the same time, the exchange rate for the trans- ferable ruble was changed from Zl 91 = TR 1 to Zl 95 = TR 1, representing a depreciation of the zloty of 4.2 percent. (All references to exchange rates are to the midpoint of the relevant buying and selling rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland for spot transactions.) Romania informed the Fund that on July 1, the commercial exchange rate of the leu was appreciated by 8.8 percent against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged. At the same time, the noncom- mercial exchange rate, which applies to a small share of external transactions (notably individual tourism) was appreciated by 13 percent against the same basket of currencies. Against the U.S. dollar, the new rates established on July 1 were lei 16.00 = US$1 (commercial rate) and lei 11.00 - US$1 (noncommercial rate), maintaining the abso- lute difference between the two rates at roughly the level it had held before the appreciation. The last rates quoted prior to the change, on June 30, were lei 17.42 = US$1 (commercial rate) and lei 12.43 = US$1 (noncommercial rate). No changes were made in the structure of the basket of six currencies to which the leu is pegged, or in the system of determining bilateral commercial and noncommercial exchange rates on a weekly basis. Sudan informed the Fund that, with effect from January 31, a new system was implemented whereby the commercial bank rate of the Sudanese pound is set by the Bankers' Association. The Association will also pool all foreign exchange acquired in the market and allocate it among the commercial banks for the financing of imports in line with the priorities set by the import licensing authorities. Although the commercial bank rate is to be set flexibly and is intended to reflect underlying market conditions, the initial decision of the Bankers' Association was to maintain the rate of LSd 3.3 = US$1, as compared with the "dealer rate" of about LSd 5 = US$1, at which most of the transactions were in effect taking place. The commercial bank rate was subsequently adjusted, and is LSd 4.05 - US$1. In addition, there is an official exchange rate of LSd 2.5 = US$1 and an effective export rate, which represents a mix of the official and commercial bank rates. With effect from June 20, the midpoint exchange rate of the Tanzanian shilling against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was adjusted to TSh 40 - US$1. This adjustment represents a 25 36 percent devaluation against the U.S. dollar. The Tanzanian authorities began to depreciate the shill- ing in March; the exchange rate against the U.S. dollar was depreciated gradually from TSh 16.0 = US$1 at the end of March to TSh 19.95 - US$1 by the end of April, TSh 26.0 - US$1 by the end of May, and TSh 30.0 - US$1 by June 19. By end- November the rate was TSh 49.2 - US$1.19 Two members whose exchange arrangements are classified as "More Flexible: Adjusted According to a Set of Indicators" implemented changes in the period under review (Table 5). Brazil informed the Fund that, with effect from February 27, the cruzeiro was replaced by a new currency called the "cruzado" (cruzados in the plural) at the rate of 1,000 cruzeiros per cruzado. The abbreviation for this new currency is "CZ$." A subsidiary unit for the cruzado was also intro- duced, the "centavo." The value of one centavo is CZ$0.01. The cruzado was devalued by 1.8 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar with effect from Octo- ber 15, from CZ$13.84 = US$1 to CZ$14.09 - US$1. In addition, with effect from July 17, 1986 through December 31, 1987, monetary payment of the following ad valorem taxes on international travel is required: (1) 25 percent on the issue, in Brazil, of international air and sea tickets; (2) 25 percent on orders originating in Brazil for the issue of tickets abroad; and (3) 25 percent on the sales of foreign exchange for expenses related to foreign travel. Since November 21, 1986 the cruzado has been devalued daily, for a total of 5.7 percent, to CZ$14.44 = US$1 by year-end. Somalia devalued the official exchange rate of the Somali shilling by 22 percent with respect to the U.S. dollar, effective January 21, from So. Sh. 42.50 - US$1 to So. Sh. 54.50 - US$1. A further devaluation of 6.8 percent to So. Sh. 58.50 = US$1 was carried out on March 1; subsequently, the official exchange rate was adjusted by So. Sh. 4 per month to So. Sh. 90.5 = US$1 by end-December. In addition, in September a foreign exchange auction was introduced for imports financed by the World Bank. A predetermined amount of funds from the IDA credit for the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program is disbursed through auctions which are held twice a month, and successful bidders are allowed to open letters of credit to import products that are not on the "negative list." The auction- determined exchange rate is not being applied to 19The authorities of Tanzania effected several changes in the exchange rate throughout 1986, yielding a cumulative deprecia- tion of 68.1 percent vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES Table 5. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Subject to "More Flexible" Arrangements1 (December 31, 1985-December 31, 1986) Currency Units per U.S. Dollar2 (End of Period) Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 31, 1986 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation ( - ) (in Terms of U.S. Dollars per Currency Unit) Argentina (austral) Bolivia (peso) Brazil (cruzeiro)3 Chile (peso) China (yuan) Colombia (peso) Costa Rica (colon) Dominican Republic (peso) Ecuador (sucre) Gambia, The (dalasi) Ghana (cedi) Greece (drachma) Guinea-Bissau (peso) Iceland (krona) India (rupee) Indonesia (rupiah) Israel (new sheqel) Jamaica (dollar) Korea (won) Lebanon (pound) Madagascar (franc) Mexico (peso) Morocco (dirham) Nigeria (naira) Pakistan (rupee) Philippines (peso) Portugal (escudo) Sierra Leone (leone) Somalia (shilling) South Africa (rand) Spain (peseta) Sri Lanka (rupee) Tunisia (dinar) Turkey (lira) Uruguay (new peso) Western Samoa (tala) Yugoslavia (dinar) Zaire (zai're) Zambia (kwacha) .8005 1,692,000.0 10,490.0 183.86 3.2015 172.2 53.7 2.9400 95.75 3.4614 59.8802 147.76 173.607 42.06 12.1655 1,125.0 1.4995 5.48 890.2 18.1 635.79 371.7 9.6213 0.9996 15.98 19.032 157.487 5.2083 42.5 2.5575 154.15 27.408 .7570 576.855 125.0 2.3063 312.805 55.7925 5.70 1.2570 1,923,000.0 14.94 204.73 3.7221 219.0 58.9 3.0766 146.50 7.4261 152.00 138.76 238.980 40.24 13.1220 1,641.0 1.4864 5.48 861.4 87.0 769.81 923.5 8.7117 3.3167 17.25 20.53 146.117 35.5872 90.5 2.1834 132.40 28.520 .8402 757.790 181.0 2.1978 457.180 71.1000 12.7097 -36.3 -12.0 -29.8 -10.2 -14.0 -21.4 -8.8 -4.4 -34.6 -53.8 -60.6 + 6.5 -27.4 + 4.5 -7.3 -31.4 + 0.9 + 3.3 -79.2 - 17.4 -59.8 + 10.4 -69.9 -7.4 -7.3 + 7.8 -85.4 -53.0 + 17.1 + 16.4 -3.9 -9.9 -23.9 -30.9 + 4.9 -31.6 -21.5 -55.2 1 The information presented in this table relates to those members not included in Table 4 whose arrangements are classified in the category "More Flexible" as of December 31, 1986. Exchange rates shown are midpoints of buying and selling rates. 2 For those countries which maintain multiple rates, the rate shown is either that quoted by the authorities as the official rate or that used most widely in the country's international transactions. 3 Brazil introduced a new currency with effect from February 27, 1986, the "cruzado," replacing the cruzeiro at the rate of 1,000 cruzeiros per cruzado. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS most commodity import programs and other donor financial programs. A commercial bank rate had existed between April 1985 and September 1986, and most commod- ity and other donor-assisted programs were nego- tiated at this rate. As the commercial bank rate was not depreciated in line with the free market rate, being held constant at So. Sh. 84.4 = US$1, a third exchange rate emerged. In September 1986 the commercial rate was merged with the official rate. Under the present exchange system, separate market- determined exchange rates, which averaged So. Sh. 140 = US$1 in December 1986, apply to most private transactions except for export receipts surrendered to the Central Bank. The official ex- change rate is maintained on a transitional basis for the surrendered export proceeds, for most govern- ment transactions, and for the undisbursed portion of the 1985 commodity import program. The au- thorities had previously liberalized and simplified the exchange and trade system in early 1985. In practice, residents and nonresidents continue to be free to buy and sell foreign exchange, and practically all formal controls with respect to trade and current payments have been removed, including licensing requirements for virtually all import and export transactions. Six countries classified as "Managed Floating" implemented changes in their exchange arrange- ments in 1986. Ecuador adjusted the exchange rate of the Ecua- doran sucre applicable to all foreign exchange transactions from SI. 95 = US$1 (buying) to S/. 108.5 = US$1 with effect from January 29. The rate of S/. 95 = US$1 was retained as an official rate to be used only for the Central Bank's own accounting purposes; there are no transactions at this rate. This action was intended to assist the implementation of a flexible exchange rate policy, as the intervention rate could henceforth be adjusted administratively by the Monetary Board. In addi- tion, with effect from August 12, the surrender requirement for private sector foreign exchange was abolished, leaving the exchange rate for private sector transactions to be determined freely by mar- ket forces. Public sector transactions, including oil transactions, continue to be conducted in the central bank intervention market. Current transactions of the private sector, as well as all public sector transactions, were previously carried out in the central bank intervention market at the rate of S/. 108.50 = US$1 (buying rate), which was subject to changes by the Monetary Board. The value of the sucre in the free exchange 38 market, which was S/. 169.00 - US$1 (buying) on August 12, subsequently appreciated to S/. 146.00 = US$1 by the end of the year. Since August 20, 1986, the authorities have adjusted the intervention rate regularly so as to maintain a narrow spread between this rate and the free rate. From end-1985 to end- 1986, the sucre depreciated by almost 24 percent in real effective terms against the U.S. dollar. With effect from September 12, the exchange rate of the Indonesian rupiah was changed from Rp 1,134 = US$1 t oRp 1,644 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 31 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. This adjustment brought the real effective exchange rate to 46 percent below the level prevailing after the March 30, 1983 devaluation of 27.6 percent. On April 15 Israel notified the Fund that the name of Israel's new currency is to be recorded as "new sheqel" in the singular and "new sheqalim" in the plural.20 (The previous spelling of Israel's currency was shekel(s)). The adjective "Israeli" should be used when describing the currency, and the abbre- viation is "NIS." The subsidiary unit for the new Israeli sheqel is "agora" in the singular and "ago- rot" in the plural. The word "new" is not part of the name of the subsidiary unit. The value of one agora is NIS 0.01. With effect from August 1, the value of the new Israeli sheqel is determined in accordance with a weighted basket of currencies reflecting the composition of Israel's exports and imports with its main trading partners. Under the modified arrangements, the weights are as follows: U.S. dollar, 60 percent; deutsche mark, 20 percent; pound sterling, 10 percent; French franc and Japa- nese yen, 5 percent each. The Bank of Israel plans to stabilize the exchange rate of the new sheqel against the basket, with due regard to developments in wages and other economic factors. The value of the currency basket on August 1 was set at one U.S. dollar, and its representative rate was NIS 1.4923. Small movements in the exchange rate around its present level are considered possible. Tunisia devalued the dinar by 10 percent with effect from August 19. In terms of the U.S. dollar, the rate was adjusted from D 0.777 = US$1 on August 18 to D 0.860 = US$1 on August 19, representing a depreciation of 9.7 percent.21 20Israel introduced the new currency with effect from Septem- ber 4, 1985. The value of the new sheqel is equal to 1,000 of the former shekel. 21The exchange arrangements of Tunisia were reclassified from the category "Pegged: Currency Composite'' in the fourth quarter of 1986. See the section above describing "Changes Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS The Fund was informed by Turkey that the exchange rate of the lira had been devalued by 5 percent effective March 15. Also at that time, as a temporary measure, limits were reintroduced on the exchange rate that the commercial banks quote, with the maximum margins around the Central Bank's buying and selling rates set at 1 percent. This margin requirement was subsequently reduced in October. Since then, the Central Bank establishes its selling rate daily and the buying rate is set at 0.5 percent below the selling rate. The banks must use the Central Bank's selling rate, but are free to set their own buying rate. Among those members that are classified as "In- dependently Floating," three countries imple- mented changes in their exchange arrangements. The Dominican Republic eliminated an exchange surcharge and a departure tax. In the context of unification and flotation of the exchange rates on June 23, 1985, the Dominican Republic had intro- duced a temporary exchange tax of 36 percent for traditional exports and certain services receipts, and 5 percent for nontraditional goods. On January 19 the exchange surcharge on traditional exports was reduced to 18 percent and the 5 percent sur- charge on nontraditional exports was eliminated. The remaining exchange surcharge on exports was eliminated as of June 17. With effect also from June 17, the Dominican Republic eliminated a US$20 departure tax applied to tourists and Dominicans traveling abroad. Ghana informed the Fund that, with effect from the close of business on January 10, the exchange rate of the cedi in terms of the U.S. dollar was adjusted from G 60 = US$1 to C 90 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 33.3 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar.22 In August Zambia introduced a "Dutch" auction system, replacing the original system in which all successful bidders purchased foreign exchange at the marginal (market-clearing) rate. Earlier in July, however, certain additional documentation require- ments for access to the auction had been introduced which were intended to monitor compliance by participants and utilization of foreign exchange dis- bursed through the auction. These developments, combined with increased sales of foreign exchange, yielded a sharp appreciation of the kwacha in terms of the U.S. dollar to the range of K 5-K 6.25 = US$1 by end-August despite excess liquidity in the economy. During the fourth quarter of 1986, the supply of foreign exchange was reduced in line with available resources, "speculative" pressures began to build up as uncertainty arose with the erosion of the resource base of the auction, and the kwacha depreciated to K 12.71 = US$1 by the end of the year, a depreciation against the U.S. dollar of 54 percent since August. 22The exchange arrangements of Ghana were reclassified from the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar" in the third quarter of 1986. See the section above describing "Changes Affecting the Clas- sification of Exchange Arrangements." IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements A number of new steps were taken to foster regional cooperation in 1986. Prominent among these were the accession of Portugal and Spain to the European Communities (EC)23 on January 1, 1986. Economic integration of the two new members with the rest of the region is being governed by a series of transitional arrangements. For industrial products, the enlarged membership is implementing a phased, reciprocal dismantling of internal tariffs and align- ment of external tariffs according to a seven-year timetable. Portugal's adoption of the EC's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is being phased over a 23With the January 1, 1986 enlargement, EC membership comprised Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom. ten-year period, while Spain's implementation of the CAP is expected to be largely completed over a period of seven years.24 During 1986, the EC held discussions with a number of countries to ensure that trade relations would not be disrupted as a result of the enlarge- ment. Toward this end, a new trade protocol was signed between the EC and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)25 on July 14. Negotia- tions between the EC and nonmember Mediterra- 24For further information on the transitional arrangements, see the 1986 Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Ex- change Restrictions. 25EFTA membership comprises Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. As a result of its accession to the EC, Portugal withdrew from the EFTA on December 31, 1985. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS nean countries26 were also carried out throughout the year, with the aim of concluding a new, pref- erential trade agreement that would preserve tra- ditional trade levels and patterns. At a meeting in Reykjavik, Iceland, in June 1986 members of the EC Commission and EFTA minis- ters agreed in principle to introduce a simplified customs system throughout the two areas from January 1, 1988. Toward this end, discussions were initiated to simplify rules of origin and to create uniform customs documentation for all member states. Among other topics discussed at the meeting were ways to enhance cooperation in the field of research and development. On May 1, 1986 the third ACP-EC Convention (Lome III) entered into force, following its ratifi- cation by the ten EC member state signatories of the Convention and two thirds of the 66 participating African, Caribbean, and Pacific states.27 Lome III has provisions similar to its predecessor agreement for development aid, special trading arrangements (including duty-free access for virtually all ACP country exports to the EC, except those covered by the CAP), and a system for stabilizing export earnings. The new convention emphasizes the de- velopment of specific sectors, particularly agricul- ture, and the promotion of investment. In January 1986 representatives of the EC and the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC)28 signed a memorandum of understanding for a development program that would provide the Southern African states with financial assistance of ECU 110 million over a period of four to five years. The program, which is the first regional agreement to be concluded under the ACP-EC 26Maghreb countries: Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia; Mashreq countries: Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria; and Cyprus, Israel, Malta, and Yugoslavia. 27The 66 ACP states associated with the EC are divided into the following categories by Lome III: (1) the least-developed countries—Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, Sao Tome' and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, and Western Samoa; (2) the island and landlocked countries —Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Mada- gascar, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe; (3) others—Belize, Cameroon, People's Republic of the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Kenya, Liberia, Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. 28SADCC membership comprises Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zim- babwe. 40 arrangements, will emphasize regional development of transportation, communications, food security, and agriculture. Following preliminary contacts in 1985, represen- tatives of the EC and the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)29 held further talks in 1986 aimed at the normalization of relations between the EC and individual CMEA members and the establishment of official relations between the two country groups. Discussions also continued in 1986 between the EC and the Gulf Cooperation Council which would lead to the eventual signing of a cooperation agreement in fields such as trade, energy, industrial cooperation, investment, tech- nology transfer, and training. In October the EC concluded its first economic cooperation agreement with a group of six Central American states30 com- mitting the EC to a substantial increase in aid flows. A ministerial meeting of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)31 was held in April 1986 to discuss the world economic situation and outlook, including relations with de- veloping countries in the context of a growth- oriented adjustment strategy, freer access to mar- kets, and adequate financial flows. The twenty-first summit of the Customs and Economic Union of Central African States (UDEAC)32 was held in January 1986 in Libreville, Gabon. The discussions focused on the subject of free circulation of goods and services throughout the region, the institution of a value-added tax, and interstate cooperation in agriculture. On March 14-15, 1986 representatives of African regional organizations and of the various specialized agencies of the United Nations attended a prepa- ratory meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, for the Special Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on Africa. The deliberations were based on an "African Position Document," which had been elaborated on the basis of the "African Priority Program for Economic Recovery, 1986- 90," adopted by OAU heads of states at a summit meeting in Addis Ababa in July 1985. 29CMEA membership comprises Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. 30Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama. 3The 24 members of the OECD are Australia, Austria, Bel- gium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Yugoslavia participates in the work of the Organization with a special status. 32UDEAC member states are the Congo, the Central African Republic, Gabon, Chad, Cameroon, and Equatorial Guinea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS The eleventh Conference of Heads of State of the West African Economic Community (WAEC)33 took place on March 26-27, 1986 in Ouagadougou, Bur- kina Faso. A committee was established to examine proposals for the restructuring of the WAEC and for the strengthening of its administration. The conference led to the announcement of plans to establish a Regional Information and Commercial Documentation Center, in Abidjan, Cote d'lvoire. The summit also adopted a Protocol concerning the cooperation in the field of computerization, and a regional program on the use of renewable energy resources. An extraordinary summit of the heads of state of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA)34 was held on May 27-28,1986 in Bujumbura, Burundi. Several understandings were reached to further the members' objective of estab- lishing a common market by 1990. Among these, a decision was adopted to suspend, for a period of five years, a requirement that goods must have at least 51 percent local content in order to qualify for preferential treatment. It was also decided to ac- celerate a study on economic disparities among member states and on compensation mechanisms that could promote a better distribution of costs and benefits related to the treaty. The Comoros and Ethiopia joined the PTA Trade and Development Bank, which was established in 1985 and started operations in 1986. It was agreed that all financial transactions among member states would be settled through the Bank's clearinghouse. On June 30-July 2, 1986 the 16 member states of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) held their ninth annual summit in Abuja, Nigeria.35 The heads of states and government representatives formally adopted a decision to begin with the implementation of the second phase of the 1979 Movement of People Protocol, which had been delayed by one year at the 1985 annual summit. When fully implemented, the Protocol will grant residential rights to individuals anywhere in the ECOWAS for a period of five years. Implementation 33WAEC member states are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal. 34Members are Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swazi- land, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Angola, Mozambique, and Tanzania have observer status. 35The members of ECOWAS are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo. of the Economic Recovery Program, adopted at the organization's 1985 summit, was also discussed, with members calling for greater attention to the strategy of collective self-reliance and cooperation among member states. ECOWAS members also asked Nigeria and Guinea to mediate a dispute between Liberia and Sierra Leone. The twenty-second summit of heads of states of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) took place on July 28-30, 1986 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The summit was primarily devoted to the situation in South Africa, and it was decided to create a com- mittee which would follow developments in the region. The Planning Ministries of the Sahel countries36 met on October 30-31, 1986 in Praia, Cape Verde, with representatives of the Commission of the Eu- ropean Communities to determine priorities for regional aid granted by the European Communities to West African countries under the Lome Conven- tion (Lome III). In order to maximize the effective- ness of regional cooperation, it was agreed that priority be given to desertification control. The thirteenth conference of heads of states of francophone African countries and France was held on November 13-15, 1986 in Lome, Togo. Major issues of discussions were security, the hostilities in Chad, external debt, and the situation in South Africa. In February the Gulf Cooperation Council, which is in the process of moving toward the creation of a free-trade area and a customs union, requested observer status in the GATT. This was granted in March. The thirteenth session of the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) was held April 19-24 in Baghdad, Iraq.37 The first part of the session was devoted to deliberations of the Com- mission's Technical Committee on international economic issues. The secretariat considered a strengthening of the Trust Fund for ESCWA's regional activities, and efforts to expand areas of cooperation and coordination with various regional and Arab organizations were noted. The nineteenth annual meeting of the Board of 36The group of Sahel countries includes Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Chad. 37Members are: Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Leba- non, Oman, Palestine Liberation Organization, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Governors of the Asian Development Bank was held April 30-May 2 in Manila, the Philippines.38 In June the members of the Association of South- east Asian Nations (ASEAN)39 concluded an emer- gency petroleum sharing agreement. The agreement is effective pending ratification by each of the six ASEAN members. Also in June ASEAN ministers met in Manila with their counterparts from Aus- tralia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States ("dialogue partners"). Matters discussed at the meeting included the need to reduce barriers to trade and investment, the international economic situation in the wake of the Tokyo summit, the new GATT Round, the Multifiber Arrangement, and problems associated with the decline in commodity prices.40 The sixth ASEAN/EC ministerial meeting was held on October 20-21, 1986. Foreign ministers from both sides agreed on the need for increased foreign investment in the region. ASEAN ministers called upon the EC to take further steps to reduce barriers to imports from the region, while the EC urged the ASEAN states to accelerate efforts to establish a common market. In July Japan and ASEAN agreed in principle to create a symposium to promote investment and technology transfers. The creation of a South East Asian common market was also considered at the meeting. In December the heads of state of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation41 reached agreement on a number of issues, including a de- cision to work toward the formation of a common view with respect to the North-South dialogue and on policy with respect to GATT. With effect from January 1, 1986, the Central American Common Market42 introduced a new tar- iff. The new schedule, which is based on the 38Members are Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhu tan, Burma, Taiwan (see Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65), Cook Islands, Fiji, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Democratic Kampuchea, Kiribati, Korea, the Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Maldives, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singa- pore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Tonga, Vanua tu, Viet Nam, and Western Samoa. Also participating are Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. 39Members of ASEAN are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. 40An agreement governing ASEAN textile and clothing sales to the EEC in the period 1987-90 was initialed in Brussels, Belgium on June 28. 41Members are Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 42Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. 42 Customs Cooperation Council nomenclature, con- sists of three parts: (1) items subject to the common external tariff; (2) tariff headings that are in the process of being harmonized; and (3) a small number of tariff headings which will not be harmonized and which are free to be adapted by each country. In February the United States announced a new policy regarding garment imports from countries participating in the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI). Under the new policy, each country is eligible for a guaranteed level of access to the U.S. garment market, which will be determined according to the country's existing plant capacity and potential for expansion. On January 1, 1986 Aruba became the twenty-first beneficiary country. The Eleventh Senior Committee of High Level Gov e rnm ent Expe r ts (CEGAN) convened March 3-6 in Bogota, Colombia. Main agenda items included implementation of the international devel- opment strategy and prospects of Latin America and the Caribbean for the rest of the 1980s, and external debt of Latin America and the Caribbean. The twenty-first session of the Economic Com- mission for Latin America and the Caribbean43 (ECLAC) convened April 17-22 in Mexico City to discuss regional economic developments. The Permanent Executive Committee of the Inter- American Economic and Social Council, under the Organization of American States, held a meeting July 22-25, entitled "Technical Meeting on Pro- motion of Economic Development by Strengthening Direct and Indirect Private Investment in Latin America and the Caribbean." Also in July heads of government of the Caribbean Economic Community (CARICOM) agreed to the cre- ation of a US$75 million trade credit facility to help stimulate trade within the 13-nation organization.44 43Members are Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hon- duras, Jamaica, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Spain, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom, the United States, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Associate members are the British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, the Netherlands Antilles, and the U.S. Virgin Is- lands. Switzerland and the Vatican participate in a consultative capacity in the work of the Commission. Other members of the United Nations may participate in a consultative capacity in discussions of matters of particular concern to them. ^Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS The new facility provides preshipment financing for a maximum of five years, and covers most nontra- ditional exports. The facility is made up of equity subscribed by participating countries (US$15 mil- lion) and loans (US$60 million). Also contributing is the Caribbean Development Bank, which is man- aging the scheme. The project is also intended to stimulate countertrade between members of CARICOM. Agreement was reached on a range of regional projects in the Caribbean to be funded with the estimated US$100 million expected from the EC under the terms of the Lome Convention. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 Member Date Direction Measures Industrial countries Canada Denmark Japan Spain 1/1/86 1/1/86 2/28/86 3/7/86 3/14/86 3/21/86 4/1/86 6/23/86 7/22/86 8/5/86 8/23/86 12/1/86 4/1/86 1/1/86 Sweden United Kingdom 7/1/86 1/1/86 Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Liberalization 1/1/86 Elimination 1/1/86 Introduction 2/15/86 Tightening 2/21/86 Introduction 3/1/86 Liberalization 5/24/86 6/10/86 Introduction Tightening 6/20/86 9/20/86 9/26/86 Liberalization Liberalization Introduction 9/26/86 Elimination 9/27/86 12/16/86 Introduction Tightening 12/20/86 Tightening 44 Quantitative Import Controls Items added to bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Indonesia. Items added to bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Brazil. Agreement concluded w i th Turkey on imports of pants. One-year import quota placed on tailored collar shirts from Viet Nam. Agreement concluded with Maldives on imports of certain textile items. Items added to bilateral clothing restraint agreement w i th Maur i t ius. Pants added to bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Bangladesh. Quota imposed on certain clothing imports from Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Bilateral clothing restraint agreement concluded with Viet Nam. Understanding reached with Japan on restraint of Japanese car exports to Canada. Quota extended to all clothing imports from Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Imports from South Africa and Namibia banned. Quantitative restrictions on leather footwear eliminated. Quantitative import restrictions eliminated or liberalized in accordance with provision of accession to European Communities (EC). All imports from South Africa subjected to licensing. Imports of the following liberalized: tableware and other articles of a kind commonly used for domestic or toilet purposes, and stoneware originating in the Republic of Korea; matches and certain aluminum goods originating in Romania. Discontinuance of Community surveillance of handkerchiefs originating in Portugal; and of surveillance licensing of certain iron and steel goods originating in Brazil and Spain. In the context of regulations of the EC, Community surveillance licensing was introduced of certain yarns of synthetic textile fibers and stockings and socks originating in Turkey. Imposition of restrictions on importations into Northern Ireland of certain air guns, air rifles, air pistols, and other ammunition originating in all third countries. Quotas imposed on certain animal fats, certain fertilizers, and certain bleached paper and paperboard originating in the United States. A quota was imposed on certain iron and steel goods originating in Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Imports were liberalized of styrene, certain polyethelyne products, sporting and target shooting guns, rifles and carbines, gymnas ium and athletic equ ipmen t, and snow skis originating in the United States. A ban was imposed on gold coins originating in South Africa. Commun i ty surveillance licensing introduced on track suits originating in Turkey. Double control surveillance licensing introduced for certain goods originating in Turkey previously subject to either quota restriction or Commun i ty surveillance licensing. Imports of certain iron and steel rails originating in Czechoslovakia liberalized. Import quota measures of 2/15/86 taken against United States liberalized. Intra-Community surveillance licensing introduced for certain iron and steel goods originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Intra-Community surveillance licensing lifted on certain other iron and steel goods originating in Czechoslovakia. A ban imposed on certain iron and steel goods originating in South Africa. Intra-Community surveillance licensing introduced for color television receivers originating in Taiwan.t Quotas imposed on imports of urea originating in certain countries of Eastern Europe and the U .S .S .R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member United States Date 1/1/86 1/7/86 7/1/86 7/31/86 9/7/86 10/2/86 12/9/86 12/15/86 Direction Introduction Introduction Elimination Introduction Liberalization Tightening Introduction Tightening Measures Quotas imposed on semifinished steel imports from the EC. Trade embargo on Libya imposed. Prohibition of importation of certain categories of books (manufacturing clause) expired. Agreement on trade in semiconductors with Japan concluded. Quotas on semifinished steel imports from the EC increased. Imports of certain goods from South Africa prohibited. Agreement on voluntary limits on exports of machine tools by Taiwan t concluded. Quotas on sugar imports reduced. Developing countries— fuel exporters Indonesia 3/25/86 Tightening Liberalization Mexico 10/31/86 Nigeria 9/29/86 Liberalization Trinidad and 5/16/86 Liberalization Tobago Tunisia 9/1/86 10/14/86 Liberalization Liberalization Imports of used paper restricted to paper producers. Import license requirements for 201 tariff lines eliminated. Import licensing abolished, and items subject to import prohibition reduced. Introduction of general import licenses to be issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers for importing certain inpu ts. Procedures for granting of licenses for imports from CARICOM countries liberalized. Transfer of items from licensing to the (free) system of import certificate. Developing countries — other Bangladesh 7/1/86 7/16/86 1/15/86 3/14/86 7/14/86 1/3/86 Barbados Liberalization Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Introduction Number of items on Negative and Restricted Import Lists deleted. Limit on imports of fabrics reduced. Items added to list of goods requiring import licenses. Items added to list of goods requiring import licenses. Items added to list of goods requiring import licenses. Steel and pesticides imports made subject to import licensing. China, People's Republic of Colombia Dominican Republic Egypt Fiji The Gambia Ghana Grenada Guinea 2/25/86 Liberalization Range of tax credit certificates system narrowed from 5-35 percent with seven rates to 5-14 percent with three rates. Feb.-May 1986 May-July 1986 5/24/86 7/7/86 7/1 1/86 7/12/86 10/1/86 8/21/86 Various dates 1/20/86 10/6/86 1/10/86 1/6/86 Liberalization A few items transferred to free import list. Tightening Introduction Items transferred for prior import license list and subjected to prior approval. Imports of wine and other grape-related alcoholic beverages and spirits banned. Elimination Introduction Introduction Liberalization Tightening Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Import ban on automobiles and heavy machinery lifted. Import ban on automobiles and heavy machinery reintroduced. Import ban on various goods and equipment used in the production of electricity introduced. Import ban on wine and other grape-related spirits lifted. Administrative controls over import licensing tightened. Additions of a number of items to the list of prohibited or restricted imports. All imports permitted under open general licenses. Import licensing procedures simplified with introduction of foreign exchange auction system. Import licensing removed for 20 consumer goods. Import licenses abolished; foreign exchange for imports made available through auction. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix . Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Haiti Hungary India Korea Madagascar Date Direction 8/10/86 Liberalization 8/1/86 3/3/86 10/8/86 and 10/29/86 11/13/86 7/1/86 9/1/86 1/2/87 Tightening Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Maldives 1/1/86 Tightening Mali Mauritius Morocco Nepal 2/13/86 12/22/86 2/86 7/7/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization 8/11/86 12/7/86 Introduction Liberalization Netherlands Antilles Pakistan 10/14/86 Introduction 6/30/86 Liberalization Panama 8/86 Liberalization 3/19/86 3/4/86 4/30/86 6/6/86 7/26/86 9/26/86 1/1/86 2/28/86 8/4/86 10/1/86 6/86 6/1/86 8/6/86 2/27/86 3/7/86 7/3/86 7/16/86 11/14/86 Liberalization Elimination Elimination Elimination Elimination Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Introduction Introduction Tightening Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Tightening Paraguay Philippines Portugal Senegal Sierra Leone South Africa Thailand 46 Measures Number of import items subject to licenses reduced from 111 to 35. Quotas eliminated for all items except cement, rice, sugar, and wheat. Customs regulations affecting individuals tightened. Twenty-nine machine tool items placed under open general license. Nine items removed from open general license list. Forty-three items of machinery placed under open general license. Increase in number of automatically approved import items. Importation of foreign cigarettes permitted up to 1 percent of domestic consump t ion. Import regime for essential goods liberalized through provision of mon th ly allocation of foreign exchange. A new import license system adopted placing a limit on imports based primarily on the value of their 1985 imports. Import licensing system simplified. Commercial banks granted au thor i ty to effect import paymen ts w i thout prior authorization by the central bank. List of prohibited goods abolished, and coverage of licensing requirements reduced. Introduction of auction system for licenses for imports of certain goods (from countries other than India) whose licensing is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. Introduction of passbook system for the import of industrial raw materials. Extension of auction system for import licenses to all goods whose licensing is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. Quotas introduced for certain items having locally produced substitutes. Maximum value of import licenses for capital goods imports by textile indus try increased. Import quotas on certain products replaced by tariffs; many tariffs to be reduced gradually over the medium term. Removal of a variety of cotton and wool textiles from the list of prohibited imports. Prior approval requirement for a list of regulated imports eliminated. Prior approval requirement for a list of regulated imports eliminated. Prior approval requirement for a list of regulated imports eliminated. Removal of restriction on import of capital goods exceeding US$50,000. Prior approval requirement for a list of regulated imports eliminated. Quantitative restrictions liberalized in accordance with accession to the EC. Quantitative restrictions on all items not produced locally removed. Quantitative restrictions on most products produced locally removed. Quantitative restrictions on imports of packing papers and cardboard removed. All goods, with the exception of prohibited items, permitted to be imported under open general licenses; the Specific Import License abolished. Authority for approving transactions delegated to commercial banks. Imports from Sweden subjected to license. Imports from Zimbabwe subjected to license. Imports of semifinished and parts of garments prohibited. Temporary permission for certain imports. A ban imposed on imports of certain single-cylinder diesel engines. Permission granted for limited import of kenaf. The permitted ratio of local purchase to import for soybean meal set at 1 :1, with a maximum import allowance of 120,000 tons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Turkey Yemen Arab Republic Yugoslavia Date 1/1/86 9/1/86 12/17/86 3/30/86 Direction Measures Liberalization Number of items subject to prior approval reduced. Liberalization Procedures for granting licenses for imports from CARICOM countries made more liberal. Liberalization Number of items subject to prior approval reduced. Tightening Imports of luxury goods suspended for the rest of the year. 11/20/86 Liberalization Raw materials for medical products moved from quota category to free category. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation -> ) Industrial countries Canada 1/10/86 1/20/86 2/86-12/86 3/27/86 6/6/86 6/15/86 7/25/86 9/30/86 11/7/86 11/10/86 12/1/86 3/1/86 1/1/86 1/1/86 1/20/86 1/1/86 3/1/86 1/6/86 1/27/86 2/5/86 2/17/86 3/6/86 3/7/86 3/14/86 3/18/86 3/31/86 4/2/86 4/21/86 Iceland Ireland Japan New Zealand Spain United States Tightening Liberalization Tightening Elimination Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Withdrawal of du ty-free rate under GPT on color television receiving sets made final, and withdrawal of duty-free GPT rate on rubber footwear other than sandals and riding boots extended up to end- 1988. Removal of duties on computer parts and certain semiconductors. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to various items imported from certain countries. Provisional countervailing duties imposed on imports of boneless manufacturing beef from the EC. MFN tariff rates on imports of certain books, maps, charts, and printed music from the United States increased, and tariffs on imports of computer parts and certain semiconductor devices from the United States restored. Imports from Commonwealth countries in the Caribbean exempted from duties under CAR IBCAN agreement. Provisional countervailing duties maintained on imports of boneless manufactured beef from EC. Provisional countervailing duties imposed on imports of dry pasta from the EC. Provisional countervailing duties imposed on corn imports from the United States. Provisional countervailing duties imposed on imports of carbon steel stainless pipe from Brazil. Liberalization Annual quota on women's and girls' footwear imports increased. Liberalization Customs duties on certain goods reduced. Liberalization Tariffs on imports from certain countries reduced. Liberalization Coverage of Generalized System of Preferences extended and GSP rates reduced on some i tems. Tariffs on imports of computer peripherals and par ts, and computer-related equ ipment reduced. Tariffs on finished goods not produced domestically eliminated. Import tariffs reduced in accordance with provision of accession to EC. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from South Africa. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Brazil. Most favored nation (MFN) treatment suspended for Afghanistan. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from Canada. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Islamic Republic of Iran. Countervailing du t ies imposed on certain goods from New Zealand. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Canada. Duties raised on certain products from Canada under the escape clause. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Japan and Korea. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Thailand. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from China. Elimination Liberalization Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Liberalization 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued] Member Date 4/29/86 5/5/86 5/27/86 6/3/86 7/2/86 8/11/86 8/13/86 8/25/86 10/21/86 10/23/86 11/3/86 11/5/86 11/19/86 11/21/86 12/8/86 Direction Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Introduction Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Measures Antidumping duties imposed on certain goods from Canada. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from Brazil, Korea, and Taiwan.! An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from Japan. Antidumping duties imposed on certain goods from Canada. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from Islamic Republic of Iran. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Zimbabwe. Antidumping duties imposed on certain goods from China. Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from New Zealand. Customs user fee. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain imports from Singapore. Countervailing duties imposed on certain imports from Brazil and Korea. Antidumping duties imposed on certain goods from Mexico, China, and Taiwan. t Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from Korea and Taiwan. t Countervailing duties imposed on certain goods from El Salvador. An t idump ing duties imposed on certain goods from Brazil and Taiwan. t Developing Indonesia countries— fuel exporters Liberalization 2/25/86 7/11/86 7/12/86 7/28/86 8/13/86 8/13/86 9/2/86 9/2/86 9/13/86 9/13/86 10/16/86 10/16/86 10/25/86 3/1/86 1/1/86 9/29/86 4/30/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Introduction Tightening Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Kuwait Nigeria Mexico Oman Trinidad and Tobago 1/1/86 1/14/86 Tightening Liberalization Machines, equ ipmen t, software, and basic materials not produced domestically exempted from import duties and sales tax. Imports connected w i th production of certain motor sailboats exempted from import duties, value-added tax, and luxury goods sales tax. Imports of cars in completely knocked-down condition for taxi business exempted from import duties and value-added tax. Certain imports needed for construction of shopping centers, supermarkets, and department stores exempted from import duties. Import duties on copra, palm oil, and their processed products increased. Value-added tax and sales tax on luxury goods on the import of capital goods for certain companies suspended for a period of not more than five years. Shrimp feed exempted from import duties. Basic materials for the manufacture of certain bearings exempted from import duties. Import duties on sewing machines for industrial use made uniform. Import duties on tire cord fabrics reduced. Imports of certain types of steel bars for industrial use exempted from import duties, and import duties on certain other types of steel bars decreased. Import duties on certain types of steel bars increased. Import surcharges imposed on 36 items. Increased customs du ty on certain products considered to be similar to those produced domestically. Import surcharges introduced. Import surcharge and import licensing abolished. Maximum import tariff reduced from 50 percent to 45 percent. Rates below 45 percent reduced by 2.5 percentage points, except that the 5 percent rate abolished. General tariff rate raised from 4 percent to 5 percent. The 12 percent stamp du ty on imports of raw materials abolished. Developing countries —other Argentina 5/6/86 48 Liberalization Producers of specified products in the electronics sector made eligible for exemptions or reductions in duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Belize Bolivia Brazil Costa Rica Dominica Dominican Republic Egypt Fiji Greece Grenada Guinea Haiti India Israel Kenya Korea Madagascar Date 9/4/86 1/25/86 8/15/86 8/15/86 7/24/86 Direction Liberalization Tightening Tightening Tightening Elimination 7/24/86 Elimination 7/26/86 Liberalization 11/24/86 Elimination Various dates 6/11/86 Liberalization Neutral 9/1/86 Liberalization 7/1/86 9/8/86 8/21/86 11/4/86 7/1/86 3/13/86 3/13/86 1/5/86 8/10/86 6/16/86 Tightening Introduction Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Elimination Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization 7/29/86 Liberalization Measures Inputs into exported products exempted from all tariffs and duties. Fee on entrepot trade increased. Number of items exempted from import duties reduced. A un iform tariff rate of 20 percent introduced. Financial transaction tax eliminated on importation of selected computer goods, selected inpu ts to the computer goods indus try, and selected payments on transfer of technology. Financial transaction tax eliminated on machinery and capital equipment imported by the leather processing indus try, and on imports of additives, vitamins, and raw materials used as inputs in the production of animal food. Financial transaction tax on certain imports used in the production of electronic equipment reduced to: 75 percent on all processed raw materials; 50 percent on semi-manufactured products; 25 percent on manufactured products. Financial transaction tax eliminated on importation of machines, equipment, parts, and components for production of gelatinous capsules for pharmaceutical use when no similar national product exists. Tariff exceptions or reductions introduced for certain products. System of import surcharges amended; new definition of categories and rates established. Reduction of surcharges on luxu ry goods (from 30 percent to 15 percent) and non luxury goods (from 7 percent to 3.5 percent). (These surcharges subsequently eliminated at end of year.) Taxes on imports of petroleum and motor vehicles increased. Import taxes or fees on imports entering the country after certain date reinstated. New tariff structure with lower average rate introduced. Increase in import taxes on vehicles, petroleum products, and spirits. Regulatory tax on imports reduced. The 15 percent stamp tax on imports removed. The 10-45 percent consumption du ty on imports removed. The 5 percent international airport levy on imports removed. A 20 percent value-added tax on imports enacted. Tariff structure simplified. Many specific tariffs replaced by ad valorem tariffs averaging 20 percent. Customs du ty rates on parts and components for electronic goods, capital goods for electronic goods, and computers reduced. Import and excise du ty concessions granted for computerized numerically controlled systems, leather, chemicals, coffee, materials for television sets, ambulances, auto-rickshaws, fertilizer inpu ts, specific rubber products, and polypropylene yarn. Tariff rates reduced within the framework of U.S.-Israel free trade agreement. Duties on certain imports eliminated or reduced. Duties on certain imports introduced or raised. Tariff rate on crude oil imports raised. Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Tightening 1/1/86 7/1/86 2/27/86, 4/4/86, and 6/5/86 7/1/86 7/1/86 1/2/87 Liberalization Adjustment tariffs removed from the two items previously subject to them and added to five other newly liberalized items (net increase of three items); emergency tariff removed from one item, leaving two items sub ject to it. Liberalization Reduction in number of items ineligible under the customs duty refunding system. Tightening Fee of 10 percent imposed on import license applications, with exemptions for exports' inpu ts. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Malaysia Maldives Nepal Nicaragua Pakistan Senegal Date Direction 3/27/86 Elimination 4/1/86 Neutral 2/22/86 Tightening 1/1/86 4/24/86 5/14/86 5/31/86 6/86 Neutral Tightening Tightening Tightening Liberalization 8/14/86 Liberalization Seychelles 11/1/86 Tightening Sierra Leone 6/86 Liberalization South Africa Thailand Togo Turkey Uruguay Zaire Zimbabwe 7/1/86 1/21/86 12/18/86 12/18/86 4/9/86 4/11/86 Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization 10/9/86 Tightening 12/13/86 Tightening 12/23/86 4/23/86 8/20/86 8/1/86 8/1/86 Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Measures Import duties on travel posters, brochures, leaflets, and other printed materials abolished. A new tariff schedule with du ty rates ranging from 5 percent to 200 percent on c .i .f. value of imports adopted. Limit on duty-free imports by Nepalese traveling abroad reduced from NRs 2,000 t o N Rs 1,000. Reform of Central American Common External Tariff introduced. Customs duties and other charges on imports financed through own foreign exchange and "free" exchange market to be levied on basis of free exchange rate, with certain exemptions. Customs fee introduced on certain imports. Customs storage fees raised. Reduction in import du ty on certain imports of plant and machinery and industrial raw materials from 40 percent to 20 percent. "Normal fiscal tariff reduced from 40 percent to 30 percent; the "increased fiscal tariff reduced from 50 percent to 35 percent; and the "special fiscal tariff reduced from 75 percent to 65 percent. Customs duties replaced by a trade and service tax ranging from 10 percent to 350 percent. An invoice en try fee and an import licensing fee reduced to 10 percent of the c.i.f. value. Import surcharges on certain raw materials and intermediate goods eliminated. Reduction of import du ty on poly v inyl and glass tubes for use in manufacturing of syringes and for use as vials. Reintroduction of tariffs on several items. Customs tariffs on a number of items reduced or eliminated. Import duties on raw materials and semiprocessed goods reduced. Import duties on oil (one type), new tires, batteries, tobacco, and hurricane lanterns reduced. The number of items whose importation is subject to dollar-denominated levies increased, and levies raised on other items. Surcharge on imports levied for support and price stabilization fund raised from 2 percent to 4 percent. Stamp du ty on imports raised from 4 percent to 6 percent. A number of products exempted from the import surcharge. Import surcharges reduced by uniform 5 percentage points. New tariff structure introduced. Reduction from 20 percent to 15 percent of import surcharge on machinery imports for manufacturing mining and agricultural industries. Developing countries —fuel exporters Ecuador 3/21/86 Introduction 8/11/86 Elimination Advance deposits against foreign loans contracted for import financing introduced. Advance deposits against foreign loans contracted for import financing eliminated. Advance Import Deposits v Developing countries—other Afghanistan 11/2/86 Bangladesh 2/16/86 El Salvador 1/22/86 Guatemala 6/5/86 50 Tightening Introduction Introduction Tightening Higher rates set for advance import deposits. Margin deposit requirement for letters of credit for palm oil imports introduced. Prior deposit requirement introduced for imports from outside Central America. Rate of guarantee deposit requirement for import prepayment not involving letters of credit raised. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Date Direction Measures South Africa 8/6/86 Turkey 7/1/86 10/26/86 Western Samoa 3/19/86 Yemen Arab Republic 7/8/86 Industrial countries Canada France Finland Italy Norway 9/1/86 4/15/86 5/15/86 5/22/86 5/ 1 6/86 1/16/86 4/14/86 7/21/86 Introduction Tightening Liberalization Goods imported by Zambia through South African ports subjected to a cash deposit scheme. Rate on advance import deposits raised from 3 percent to 9 percent. Schedule published for reduction to 3 percent by November 1986. The rate of advance import deposits was lowered from 9 percent to 7 percent, but exemptions to deposit requirements largely eliminated. Liberalization Advance deposits against motor vehicle imports permitted to be made at any commercial bank and interest paid on them. Rates of margin deposits raised. Tightening Other Import Measures Liberalization Introduction Liberalization Carbon steel products added to import control list for monitoring purposes. Forward import cover for goods invoiced in foreign currency permitted up to three mon ths. Period of allowable forward cover for purchase of goods invoiced in foreign exchange extended to six mon ths. Liberalization Companies allowed to hedge their currency exposure by using forward foreign exchange contracts of up to six mon ths for imports of goods. Liberalization Limit on amount of foreign financing credit for imports mediated by banks abolished . Tightening Prohibition of import paymen ts ahead of contractual terms. Liberalization Abolition of prohibition of import paymen ts ahead of contractual terms. Neutral Requirement that imports financed in a foreign currency and capital imports financed for between one and five years be licensed. Developing countries — oil exporters Indonesia 10/25/86 Liberalization Qatar 3/1/86 Liberalization Syrian Arab Republic Venezuela 9/2/86 Tightening 5/26/86 Tightening Developing countries — other Bangladesh 1/1/86 Liberalization 12/18/86 Tightening Import licensing procedures applying to 321 categories of imports concentrated in mechanical and electrical equ ipmen t, motor vehicles, chemicals, paper and paperboard, rubber tires and tubes, and basic iron and steel liberalized. Companies operating in member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council allowed to export to coun t ry w i thout maintaining a local agency. Tightening of restrictions on acquisition of foreign exchange through the unofficial market, thus eliminating an avenue for import financing. M in imum financing requirement of at least 120 days for the equivalent of 80 percent of the f .o .b. introduced. Industrial firms allowed to open deferred paymen ts letters of credit for raw material imports. Minimum term of import financing from 180 days to 5 years established. Dominican Republic El Salvador Hungary Israel Madagascar Morocco 1/22/86 1/22/86 1/1/86 8/1/86 8/4/86 7/7/86 Philippines 1/27/86 8/1/86 Tightening Introduction Liberalization Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Authorization of the central bank required for imports exceeding US$300. Letters of credit w i th guarantee deposits required for imports from outside Central America exceeding certain limits. Foreign trading rights vis-a-vis the convertible currency area liberalized. Prohibition on prepaymen ts of suppliers' credits removed. Special import system for exporting enterprises provided. Imports used for production of export goods may be financed directly by export receipts of same exporter. Liberalization M in imum import paymen ts terms reduced from 180 to 60 days for certain imports under progressive manufacturing programs. Foreign financing requirement for capital goods imports eliminated. Elimination 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Sudan Uruguay Date Direction Measures 1/20/86 8/21/86 Tightening Use of balances in foreign currency accounts to pay for import and trade-related invisibles prohibited. Liberalization Most reference prices reduced. State Trading Developing countries Guinea-Bissau 8/13/86 Liberalization Nigeria 9/29/86 Elimination Sierra Leone Solomon Islands Togo 6/86 5/27/86 5/1/86 Tightening Liberalization Liberalization 7/1/86 Liberalization Private sector permitted to engage in all merchandise trade, except imports of cereals, petroleum products, and pesticides. Boards responsible for export of cocoa, cotton, g roundnu ts, and palm kernels abolished. Exports of gold restricted to the GGDO and the Bank of Sierra Leone. State monopoly over rice imports terminated. Import monopoly of the Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) terminated for salt and soap. Import monopoly of SONACOM terminated for corrugated iron products and concrete reinforcement rods. Exports and Export Proceeds Quantitative Restrictions and Control on Exports Industrial countries Canada Denmark Japan Sweden United States 6/27/86 12/1/86 2/13/86 12/11/86 6/1/86 1/7/86 6/4/86 6/5/86 7/14/86 8/11/86 10/2/86 Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Extension Cedar bolts added to Export Control List and exports of cedar bolts and logs to the United States prohibited. Exports to South Africa and Namibia, except exports of medicine, banned. Voluntary restraint on motor vehicle exports to the United States for one-year period starting April 1986 announced. Quantities of certain products exported to EC to be monitored: motor vehicles, television sets, and related equipment. Re-exports of certain high-tech products to require prior approval from country of origin. Introduction Prohibition of exports to Libya. Elimination Prohibition of exports of crude oil from certain parts of the country discontinued. Tightening Exports of helicopters to certain countries made subject to control. Elimination Licensing requirements for exports of certain goods to certain countries removed. Liberalization Restrictions on certain exports to Spain relaxed. Introduction Prohibition of certain exports to South Africa. Developing countries— fuel exporters Indonesia 3/26/86 Tightening Nigeria 9/9/86 10/8/86 1/1/86 9/29/86 Liberalization Introduction Elimination Elimination Exports of nutmeg limited to companies that are members of the Indonesian Nu tmeg Association. Export ban on pure gold and silver lifted. Exports of raw material rattan prohibited. Ban on food exports lifted. Export bans (and most export licensing requirements) eliminated. Developing countries — other China, People's 1/86 Republic of Greece Nepal 2/13/86 1/4/86 52 Liberalization Introduction Liberalization Joint ventures permitted to export domestic products produced under state monopoly or requiring export licenses. Exports of crude oil and arms to South Africa prohibited. Export of 80 percent of pulses allowed without permission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued} Member Date Direction Measures 1/24/86 3/10/86 1/14/86 1/16/86 5/17/86 7/1/86 3/18/86 2/26/86 Philippines Thailand Uruguay Industrial countries Norway Sweden 7/21/86 7/1/86 Developing countries Madagascar 8/29/86 Malaysia 6/27/86 Mali Nigeria Thailand Togo 11/18/86 9/29/86 2/2/86 11/19/86 Industrial countries United States Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Nepal and the United States signed an agreement limiting the volume growth for exports to the United States of four major categories of ready-made garments to 6 percent per annum. Termination of export ban on copra. Permissible ratio of coffee exports between nonmember and member countries of the ICO changed from 1.1 : 1 to 2.76: 1. Liberalization Prohibition on exports of rice bran temporarily lifted. Liberalization More flexible regulations governing exports of garments to countries setting import quotas announced. The free export policy for maize continued and extended to cover Japan and Taiwan.t List of prohibited exports shortened. Exports of certain hides prohibited. Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Export Licensing Neutral Tightening New regulations issued for licensing requirements for trade financing. All exports to South Africa subjected to licensing. Liberalization Regulations and controls governing exports simplified. Elimination Export licenses for cement, metals (excluding scrap), sugar, flour, diesel, and premium petroleum (except naphtha) abolished. Elimination Export licensing system abolished, with the exception of cereals. Liberalization Most export licensing abolished. Tightening Licensing requirements imposed on exports of certain types of wildlife animals and carcasses. Liberalization Mechanism established to grant licenses for cereal exports. Fiscal and Other Incentives 3/3/86 Introduction New incentive program for dairy products. Developing countries Argentina 2/4/86 Bolivia Colombia Greece India 9/4/86 8/13/86 2/25/86 6/5/86 7/1/86 7/1/86 10/86 3/1/86 12/86 Introduction Introduction Liberalization Introduction Special payments of up to 15 percent of increase in export value and access to central bank prefinancing provided to certain products. Exporters of specified manufactured products granted payments equivalent to 10, 12.5, and 15 percent of export value as estimated drawback of indirect taxes on production. Elimination CERTEX system of incentives for nontraditional exports suspended. Liberalization Range of tax credit certificates system narrowed from 5-35 percent with seven rates to 5-14 percent with three rates. Interest subsidies for exports reduced from 6 percent of value to 5 percent. A cash compensatory support scheme for exporters for the period up to March 1989 (for textiles, for the period January 1986-December 1988) announced for 229 items. Rates of cash compensatory support scheme for fru it and vegetables increased. Export promotion measures involving supp ly of raw materials at international prices, utilization of up to 10 percent of foreign exchange earnings for export promotion, imports of machinery free of du ty or at low rates, and full remission of excise duties and domestic taxes introduced for 14 sectors. Du ty drawback of 10 percent granted for garment exporters. Measures to promote drug exports involving concessional import du ty on raw materials, supply of materials at international prices for export production, and removal of capacity restrictions for export units introduced. Tightening Introduction Introduction Introduction 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Indonesia Kenya Date 5/6/86 6/4/86 7/1/86 Direction Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Malaysia 10/24/86 Liberalization Nicaragua Pakistan Peru Senegal Tanzania Turkey 1/7/86 5/2/86 6/18/86 11/27/86 8/4/86 7/1/86 2/1/86 9/1/86 12/13/86 4/2/86 Introduction Introduction Liberalization Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Measures Import duties and surcharges on products used to manufacture exports refunded. Imports by export producers that are exempted from import du ty exempted from value-added tax. Coverage of export compensation scheme narrowed and penalties on fraudu lent claims increased. Export incentives based on value added replaced by export incentives based on export values; abatement of ad jus ted income of up to 50 percent based on export performance provided; export allowance of 5 percent granted to trading companies exporting manufactured products. Special foreign exchange incentive for cotton production introduced; subsequently amended, 5/2/86. Special foreign exchange incentive for coffee introduced; subsequently amended, 10/22/86. Compensatory export rebate scheme abolished. Subsidy granted to nontraditional exporters at two different rates depending on commodity. Export subsidy rate decreased. Export tax rebate scheme abolished. Retention rate for nontraditional exports raised and Own Foreign Exchange Import List expanded. The system of premium paymen ts for certain categories of exports expanded. List of products eligible for rebates of indirect taxes widened. Industrial countries Canada Iceland 12/30/86 5/14/86 Tightening Liberalization Tax imposed on lumber exports to the United States. Export levies on fish products abolished. Export Taxation Developing countries—oil exporters Ecuador 8/12/86 Indonesia 4/19/86 5/12/86 6/20/86 11/4/86 Elimination Liberalization Tightening Elimination Tightening All export taxes eliminated. Export tax on natural sands, except metalbearing sands, lowered. Additional export tax on coffee raised. Export tax on crude palm oil removed. Export taxes on certain types of sawn timber and on undressed and dressed leather increased. Developing countries—other Argentina 2/19/86 8/29/86 7/1/86 1/19/86 Dominica Dominican Republic 6/17/86 3/13/86 6/5/86 10/24/86 7/18/86 4/3/86 7/1/86 1/21/86 Grenada Guatemala Haiti Honduras Malawi Philippines Thailand 54 Liberalization Export taxes reduced or eliminated on specified products. Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Elimination Introduction Liberalization Liberalization Elimination Elimination Elimination Export taxes and stamp taxes on export sales abolished. Export surcharges on traditional exports and certain services reduced and their applicability extended to end of year. Export surcharges on all exports realized after this date eliminated. The du ty on exports removed. Export taxes ranging from 0 to 27 percent introduced. Export duties on coffee reduced. Export taxes on coffee applicable in 1985/86 harvest and unpaid outstanding export tax obligations reduced or deferred for up to two years. Export levy on tea and tobacco removed. Export duties on all products except logs abolished. Export taxes on eucalyptus, pine wood, and bamboo removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued}. SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued} Member Togo U ruguay Zaire Date 4/9/86 6/13/86 3/86 Direction Measures Elimination Liberalization Introduction Export duties on domestically manufactured goods eliminated. Exports of unsk inned beef exempted from export tax. Tax on coffee exports introduced. Industrial countries Italy United States Special Credit Facilities 1/16/86 Introduction 4/14/86 Elimination 10/7/86 10/16/86 Extension Introduction Introduction of foreign financing requirement of 75 percent for exports on a deferred payments basis. Elimination of 75 percent foreign financing requirement for exports on a deferred paymen ts basis. Availability of credit insurance cover expanded. Special credit facility created. Developing countries Argentina 2/4/86 India 8/1/86 Introduction Liberalization Nepal 1/24/86 Liberalization Suriname Tunisia 9/17/86 5/5/86 Tightening Liberalization Zaire 6/6/86 Liberalization Access to central bank prefinancing of exports introduced. Scheduled commercial banks' lending rates for export credits and interest rate Reserve Bank export refinance to scheduled commercial banks reduced. Commercial banks permitted to grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of f.o value of products to holders of letters of credit. All exports required to be covered by letters of credit opened by importers abroad. Period for which export credits can be extended without prior authorization lengthened. Procedure for exporters to obtain prefinancing improved. on .b. Industrial countries France 7/4/86 Export or Exchange Guarantees Elimination Elimination of requirement of forward cover for exports. Repatriation and Surrender of Export Proceeds and Surrender Requirements Industrial countries France 5/22/86 Liberalization Exporters allowed to retain export proceeds for up to one month. Developing countries Ecuador 8/12/86 Egypt 8/13/86 Guinea-Bissau 8/13/86 Elimination Tightening Liberalization Honduras 5/15/86 Liberalization Liberia Mexico Morocco Nigeria Peru Philippines 5/28/86 9/5/86 9/5/86 7/7/86 1/1/86 9/29/86 7/25/86 11/27/86 1/3/86 Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening 1/3/86 Liberalization Surrender requirement for private foreign exchange abolished. Repatriation period of export proceeds tightened. Private sector exporters permitted to retain up to 50 percent of the total value of traditional export proceeds and up to the total value of nontraditional export proceeds (net of export duty) to finance their imports. All exporters permitted to retain up to 30 percent of export proceeds to finance imports. Introduction of 25 percent surrender requirement for export proceeds. Fines applicable to extemporaneous surrender of foreign exchange reduced. Surrender requirement for exporters and for their domestic suppliers liberalized. Imports used for production of export goods may be financed directly by export receipts of same exporter. Non-oil exporters allowed to retain 25 percent of proceeds. Non-oil exporters granted fu ll retention rights. Surrender requirements for export proceeds in the official market reduced. Residents required to surrender foreign exchange earnings from professional services within three days. Philippine corporations required to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange earnings within three days. Enterprises not engaged in production of import substitutes permitted to repatriate capital in three equal annual installments after year of liquidation. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Date Direction Measures Sierra Leone 6/27/86 Tightening Suriname Yugoslavia 5/31/86 1/1/86 Tightening Tightening All retention quotas abolished and all exporters required to fully surrender exchange earnings to the commercial banking system. All export proceeds required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Surrender requirement raised to 100 percent. Foreign Exchange Allocations for Travel, Medical Expenses, or Studying Abroad Current Invisibles Industrial countries Austria Finland France Iceland 11/1/86 1/1/86 1/1/86 1/27/86 1/1/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Increase in foreign exchange allocation residents can purchase for travel purposes. Limit on remittances for gift purposes increased. Limit on travel allowances abolished. Travel allocation for residents increased from F 5,000 to F 12,000. Basic allocation for tourist travel raised. Developing countries Algeria 2/86 Bangladesh Brazil Chile Cyprus El Salvador Guinea Israel Malta Mauritius Tightening Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization 10/18/86 7/23/86 6/30/86 12/31/86 10/11/86 12/29/86 2/6/86 Liberalization Introduction 1/6/86 8/1/86 8/1/86 2/11/86 6/18/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Portugal 1/1/86 Liberalization 12/9/86 Liberalization Sierra Leone 6/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization 8/26/86 8/13/86 2/25/86 10/20/86 4/2/86 Sri Lanka Syrian Arab Republic Tunisia Yemen, People's Democratic Republic Zambia 56 Travel allowance reduced from DA 1,000 per person per year to DA 1,000 per person every two years. Annual exchange allowance for air travel to neighboring countries increased. Tax levied on sale of foreign exchange for travel purposes at the rate of 25 percent. Increase in basic travel allowance. Increase in basic travel allowance. Resident employees of offshore companies allowed to carry abroad on person unlimited foreign exchange debited from external or foreign currency accounts of offshore enterprise. Living allowance for s tuden ts s tudy ing in certain European countries raised. Limits on foreign exchange allowances for medical treatment and s tudy and travel abroad introduced. Foreign exchange made available for payment of airline tickets. Support and gift payments abroad permitted up to US$300 a year. Exchange allocation for study abroad raised from US$200 to US$300 per month. Exchange allowances for business and tourist travel increased. Personal and business travel allowances increased; limits on gift payments abroad increased. Foreign currency allowance for tourist travel per person per year increased to Esc 150,000. Foreign currency allowance for tourist travel per person per trip fixed at Esc 150,000. The amounts of foreign exchange that can be purchased for legitimate expenses left to the discretion of commercial banks, and commercial banks can sell freely up to US$100 per individual per mon th. Annual exchange allocations for education abroad increased. Travel allocation for most countries (other than Jordan and Lebanon) increased. Tightening Liberalization Tightening Special travel allowance for travel to Morocco suspended. Foreign exchange allowances for study abroad increased. Foreign exchange allocation for tourist travel reduced. 1/8/86 8/9/86 Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Travel allowance granted for children returning to school overseas. Holiday travel allowance suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Date Direction Measures 9/8/86 1 1/4/86 Liberalization Business travel allowance increased. Liberalization Suspension of holiday travel allowance lifted, and US$500 an adult a year reinstated. Outward Transfers or Payments for Services Rendered by Nonresidents Industrial countries Finland France 1/1/86 4/15/86 5/22/86 11/27/86 Developing countries Argentina 1/2/86 Bangladesh Botswana Burundi The Gambia Greece Iraq Peru 1/14/86 7/7/86 7/7/86 1/5/86 3/10/86 9/2/86 1/20/86 5/19/86 3/19/86 7/31/86 7/29/86 7/29/86 Venezuela 7/7/86 12/6/86 Yugoslavia 1/1/86 Liberalization Foreign exchange allowance for emigrants increased. Liberalization Ceiling on small transfers increased from F 3,000 per person per mon th to F 3,000 per transaction, and ceiling on cash advances through the use of credit cards abroad raised from F 2,000 to F 6,000 per week. Individuals permitted to transfer their assets when they settle abroad, and to make donations to nonresidents. Elimination of ceiling on cash advances through use of credit cards abroad. Liberalization Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Borrowers in public and private sector allowed to purchase foreign exchange for effecting certain debt service paymen ts. Interest paymen ts on financial loans by private sector permitted. Sale of foreign exchange to effect certain invisible paymen ts incurred after Jan- uary 7, 1986 permitted under certain conditions. Liberalization Certain suppliers' credits permitted to be settled under specified conditions. Liberalization Transfers of earnings by foreign export and inspection agents allowed through SEM (more favorable market rate). Liberalization Annual limit on directors' fees and dividend remittances to nonresidents increased. Liberalization Ceilings on transfer of rental income, profits, and dividends raised and the period of mandatory deposits with domestic banks prior to transfer shortened in certain cases. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions liberalized. Restrictions on repatriation of profits and dividends by residents of EC abolished. Limit on remittances allowed for foreign workers employed w i thout contract reduced. Foreign insurance companies granted increased access to domestic market. Two-year suspension of foreign exchange remittance for private sector debt service paymen ts, dividends, profits (including depreciation allowances), royalties, patent fees, and technical assistance fees by enterprises operating in Peru. One-year extension of limit on servicing of external public debt, equivalent to 10 percent of export earnings. Amortization schedule for most registered private debt lengthened and interest rate limited to 5 percent for service paymen ts at preferential rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 . Terms and schedules for private registered debt service payments at preferential exchange rate redefined and made eligible for exchange rate guarantee. Foreign exchange for debt service provided automatically. Liberalization Elimination Tightening Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Extension Tightening Import and Export of Foreign and Domestic Currency Notes, and Holdings of Foreign Currency Domestically Industrial countries Austria Liberalization 11/1/86 France Italy 1/27/86 4/14/86 8/8/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Limit on Austrian bank notes and coin which residents can take out abolished, leaving only a reporting requirement for amounts above a certain sum. Limit on exports of bank notes increased. Limit on re-export of bank notes by nonresidents increased. Import of Italian banknotes from foreign banks by resident banks liberalized. Developing countries Bangladesh 5/29/86 Hungary 4/15/86 Liberalization Nonresidents allowed to take out up to US$150 of undeclared foreign exchange. Tightening Reduction in the amount of domestic currency nonresidents may bring into or take out of the country. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Date Direction Measures Yemen Arab Republic 7/8/86 Tightening All visitors (with some exceptions) required to exchange the equivalent of US$150 upon arrival. Industrial countries United States 1/7/86 Introduction Restrictions on services exports to Libya. Other Developing countries Brazil 7/23/86 Dominican 8/8/86 Republic Greece Mozambique 1/86 3/1/86 Industrial countries Austria Finland France Ireland Italy 1 1/1/86 5/13/86 11/18/86 4/4/86 4/14/86 4/11/86 Sweden 3/25/86 Switzerland 10/1/86 United States 1/7/86 10/27/86 Developing countries Dominican 10/22/86 Republic El Salvador The Gambia 1/22/86 7/86 Tightening Tightening Honduras 9/25/86 Tightening Indonesia 10/25/86 Liberalization Korea 58 7/10/86 8/7/86 8/22/86 Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Introduction Introduction Tightening Tax levied on sale of foreign exchange for travel purposes at rate of 25 percent. Export surrender requirement extended to foreign exchange proceeds from credit operations using international credit cards. Tourism receipts required to be surrendered. Abolition of the preferential rate of exchange for inward miners' remittances from South Africa. Capital Controls Commercial Banks' International Transactions Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening Liberalization Liberalization Major banks permitted to borrow from nonresidents in foreign currency in medium and long term. Liberalization Authorized banks permitted to use foreign banks to finance long-term export receivables. French banks allowed to make loans in francs to nonresidents, up to the amounts of francs at their disposal from nonresident deposits and Euro-franc borrowings. Removal of certain offsets against limits on banks' forward transactions. For the settlement of Italian exports, resident banks allowed to grant credits denominated in lira to foreign banks for a maximum period of ten days. The "spot against forward" ceiling on sales and purchases of foreign exchange, applying to resident banks, increased from Lit. 1.8 trillion to Lit. 2.2 trillion. The maximum maturity for forward transactions extended from 12 to 18 mon ths. Restrictions on foreign currency lending by Swedish banks to nonresidents and residents liberalized. Liberalization Withholding tax on interest earned on interbank deposits with maturity exceeding 12 mon ths abolished. Restrictions on investments in Libya. Prohibition on making credits to or taking deposits from certain South African agencies. Introduction Tightening Liberalization Limitations on commercial banks' net foreign position removed. Ceilings on the utilization of foreign credits by commercial banks established. Working balance limits placed on the banks, and any amounts held in excess of the limits required to be sold in the interbank market or offered to the Central Bank. Commercial banks required to sell 50 percent of foreign exchange proceeds from exports to the Central Bank. Ceiling on foreign currency swaps between commercial banks and Bank Indonesia lifted; amount of swap, however, must not exceed foreign loan received by the commercial bank. Reduction in max imum allowable maturity for deferred payment letters of credit. Tightening of eligibility requirements on new foreign commercial borrowing. Further tightening of eligibility requirements on new foreign commercial borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Date Direction Measures Liberalization Authorized dealers permitted to issue traveler's checks against encashment of foreign exchange bearer certificates. Liberalization Credit ins t i tu t ions authorized to deal in foreign exchange among themselves and w i th their foreign correspondents. Some limitations placed on the foreign asset position of banks. Introduction Nonresidents' Accounts and Residents' Foreign Exchange Accounts Liberalization Restricted accounts abolished. Liberalization Extension of limit on balances held by residents in Foreign Exchange Accounts for foreign exchange resulting from exports and foreign exchange purchased to make payments abroad. Liberalization Nonresidents' accounts simplified and their number reduced. Liberalization Foreign nationals and foreign firms allowed to maintain time deposits. Liberalization Regulations relating to joint venture companies implemented. Liberalization Tightening Limits on use of balances in nonresidents' accounts increased. Foreign currency accounts opened prior to 1/21/86 not allowed to be increased and must be liquidated or sold to banking system by 1/1/87. Liberalization Nonresident Indian nationals allowed to transfer abroad up to Rs 1 million in one lump sum and Rs 250,000 annually of remaining balance thereafter; foreign nationals leaving India after retirement and foreign-born widows of Indian nationals allowed to transfer abroad up to Rs 500,000 in one lump sum and Rs 250,000 annually thereafter; persons who never were Indian residents allowed to transfer abroad up to Rs 500,000 in one lump sum of inheritance, legacies, and bequests, and Rs 250,000 annually thereafter. Financial institutions in areas bordering the United States authorized to open dollar- denominated foreign accounts. Liberalization Portfolio Investment Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Relaxation of rules governing interest-bearing inves tmen ts of foreign monetary authorities and international organizations in Australia. Free purchase of quoted securities extended to cover all securities quoted on a recognized exchange. Limit on loans by residents to nonresidents through nonresident markka accounts increased. Liberalization Residents authorized to invest in foreign-listed securities. Liberalization Limit on purchases of real estate abroad by residents increased. Liberalization Prohibition on sales of Finnish bonds and debentures to residents lifted if sales proceeds from Finnish bonds and debentures used for purchases. Liberalization Authorized banks and securities agencies permitted to sell foreign securities from their own portfolios to residents within limits. Elimination Devise-tit re system abolished. Liberalization Residents permitted to buy currency options from authorized banks for all transactions concerning goods and services. Liberalization With effect from 6/30/86, the amount domestic trust funds are allowed to invest abroad in exemption from compulsory non-interest-bearing deposit to be calculated with reference to their subscribed capital of the preceding three months, instead of the preceding six months. Easing of constraints on borrowing by Italian residents from abroad. The non-interest-bearing deposits that Italian residents are required to hold as a counterpart for the acquisition of foreign securities reduced from 25 to 15 percent. Liberalization Liberalization 59 Member Pakistan 11/18/86 Portugal 5/1/86 Turkey 11/1/86 Industrial countries Finland Italy 1/1/86 4/14/86 Spain 1/1/86 Developing countries Bangladesh 6/23/86 China, People's 1/86 Republic of Egypt El Salvador 7/3/86 1/22/86 India 7/29/86 Mexico 9/1 1/86 Industrial countries Australia Austria Finland France Italy 11/5/86 11/1/86 1/1/86 1/1/86 1/1/86 6/16/86 6/16/86 5/22/86 4/14/86 4/14/86 8/8/86 8/8/86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (continued). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (continued) Member Japan Ne ther lands Norway Date 4/1/86 4/1/86 4/1/86 4/1/86 1/1/86 8/5/86 Direction Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Tightening 10/3/86 Tightening Spain 4/1/86 Liberalization Sweden Switzerland 6/13/86 9/1/86 2/18/86 Liberalization Liberalization 3/25/86 Liberalization 3/25/86 Liberalization 5/29/86 5/29/86 10/1/86 10/1/86 Elimination Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Measures Qualification standards for issuance of Euro-yen bonds relaxed. Residents allowed to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds. Maximum maturity of Euro-yen CDs increased. "Seasoning period" for sale of Euro-yen bonds to residents reduced. Deregulation of capital marke ts, including removal of prior approval requirement for resident and nonresident bond transactions. Limitations imposed on res iden ts' purchases of unquo ted inves tment funds and equities. Opening of krone accounts by nonresidents limited to authorized foreign exchange banks. Negotiations of financial loans by resident borrowers liberalized up to Ptas 750 million. Scope substantially expanded, and procedures simplified. Swedish parent companies freely permitted to guarantee borrowing by foreign subsidiaries. Residents permitted to switch existing portfolio inves tmen ts into put and call options. Residents permitted to repay certain foreign loans ahead of schedule, on a voluntary basis. Regulations on early redemption of foreign bonds and notes abolished. M in imum limit on issue of foreign bonds and notes abolished. Stamp tax on new Eurobonds issued by foreigners reduced. Sales of foreign currency-denominated bonds floated by Swiss corporation subsid- iaries exempted from withholding tax; quotations of such issues in Switzerland permitted. Developing countries Argentina 1/14/86 Chile India Netherlands Antilles Pakistan Philippines Portugal 5/6/86 7/31/86 11/1/86 1/22/86 5/7/86 7/24/86 1/1/86 Elimination Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Amortization of loans for investment projects which increase exports permitted as scheduled and under certain conditions through exchange market in which related export proceeds are repatriated. Elimination of restrictions on use of peso assets obtained under "debt-equity swap" arrangement. Commercial banks allowed to remit dividends payable on equity dividends in cases in which nonresident interest in Indian companies paying dividends does not exceed 40 percent. Liberalization Residents allowed to deposit in accounts w i th nonresident banks and to invest in officially listed foreign securities, up to annual max ima; trust offices allowed to transfer shares in offshore companies to nonresidents without prior authorization. Permission granted to public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchange in Pakistan to transfer shares to nonresident Pakistanis. Foreign banks operating in Pakistan permitted to underwrite share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan. Program for conversion of external debt into equ i ty investments introduced. Subscription of securities issued by European Investment Bank or EC up to ECU 15 million not subject to restriction. Liberalization Liberalization Industrial countries Australia 7/28/86 Liberalization Austria 60 11/1/86 Liberalization Direct Investment Suspension of 50 percent Australian participation requirement in foreign direct inves tment in manufac tur ing, rural properties, and real estate for development and for the services indus t ry; lifting of prohibition on foreign acquisition of developed commercial properties, subject to a 50 percent Australian equ i ty guideline. Long-term borrowing by domestic enterprises from nonresidents liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX (concluded). SUMMARY OF MEASURES AFFECTING MEMBERS' EXCHANGE AND TRADE SYSTEMS, 1986 Appendix. Summary Of Measures Affecting Members' Exchange and Trade Systems, 1986 (concluded) Measures Requirement for prior authorization for foreign investment exceeding F 15 million per year per investor eliminated. Restrictions on purchases of secondary residences abroad lifted. Foreign participation in newly privatized companies restricted to a maximum of 20 percent. Direct investment restrictions substantially eased; prior authorization in most sectors of the economy no longer required. Swedish parent companies permitted to establish holding companies for their foreign direct investment. Requirement that certain Swedish direct investments abroad be financed by foreign loans abolished. Amount residents allowed to transfer abroad to purchase recreational dwelling raised. Prohibition of investments by U.S. nationals in South Africa. Annual limit on directors' fees and dividend remittances to nonresidents increased. Foreign partners permitted to invest renminbi earnings in other joint ventures earning foreign exchange. Ch ina-U .K. investment agreement signed. Inves tment incentives for ventures and 100 percent wholly owned companies introduced. Direct investments by non-EC residents in Greece given same treatment as those by EC residents. Regulations concerning joint ventures aimed at stimulating direct investment inflows modified. New guidelines on foreign equity ownership announcd. Promotion of Investments Act, 1986 amended. General licenses to be issued to residents for transactions in domestic real estate with nonresidents. Debt/equity conversion scheme introduced. Foreign direct investment in tourism-related projects liberalized. Joint ventures between Polish firms and foreign partners permitted under certain conditions. Automatic approval of new foreign direct investment by EC residents up to ECU 1.5 million. A new foreign investment code was approved. Member France Date Direction 4/16/86 Elimination Spain Sweden 5/22/86 7/23/86 Liberalization Introduction 9/1/86 Liberalization 4/14/86 Liberalization 6/24/86 Elimination 6/24/86 Liberalization United States 10/2/86 Tightening Developing countries Botswana 3/10/86 China 1/15/86 Liberalization Liberalization 5/15/86 10/11/86 Liberalization Liberalization 7/25/86 Liberalization 1/1/86 Liberalization 10/1/86 10/24/86 11/1/86 8/4/86 11/7/86 7/1/86 1/1/86 4/1/86 Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Liberalization Greece Hungary Malaysia Netherlands Antilles Philippines Poland Portugal Sao Tome and Principe Syrian Arab Republic Venezuela 2/26/86 Liberalization New incentives for foreign investment in agriculture introduced. 9/29/86 Liberalization Foreign investment code amended resulting in a substantial liberalization of the regime. Other Industrial countries France 11/18/86 Elimination Netherlands 10/1/86 Liberalization Developing countries Argentina 1/12/86 Liberalization Pakistan 6/24/86 Liberalization Requirement for exporters to maintain record of their foreign exchange transactions at banks abolished. Abolition of licensing for forward transactions in foreign currencies against guilders through intermediaries other than banks. Early cancellation of contracts with exchange rate guarantee of Central Bank permitted. Exchange rate guarantee scheme broadened to include debt service on loans contracted under Pay As You Earn (PA YE) Scheme. t See Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two Part Two gives a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of individual member countries, includ- ing a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and the Netherlands Antilles, which is a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The exchange and trade system of one other country, which is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1986, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place early in 1987. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is broken down into similiar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 1986. The description of the restrictive system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange re- strictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restric- tive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import sur- charges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incen- tive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes During 1986" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions but are not necessarily reflected in the body of the country descriptions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Arrange- ment is in line with the notification of exchange arrange- ments that member countries have furnished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on Decem- ber 31, 1986, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and admin- istration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other coun- tries. Where a country has concluded payments agree- ments with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries con- cerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transac- tions are exempt from the restrictive application of licen- sing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely, or restrictively, ac- cording to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limi- tations on the export of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export licensing requirements and procedures are de- scribed under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "ex- change receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations gov- erning exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. The coverage under Capital describes the special ar- rangements or limitations attached to international capital movements. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the principal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. In this Report, references to "Taiwan" are to the Taiwan Province of China, 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Af- ghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate applied to (1) foreign exchange proceeds from exports of cotton; (2) transactions for the Central Governmen t; (3) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghan is tan (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below); and (4) all transactions in accounting units specified under bilat- eral payments agreements. The official exchange rate is defined in terms of the U.S. dollar and is flexible. On December 31, 1986 the official exchange rate was Af 50.00 - US$1 buying and Af 51.20 - US$1 selling, respectively. Certain other exchange rates have been established to provide incentives for particular exports; for these prod- ucts a portion of export proceeds can be surrendered at a rate more depreciated than the official rate but generally less advantageous than the legal bazaar rate. All proceeds from cotton, karakul, and wool exports must be surren- dered: cotton export proceeds are converted at the rate of Af 105 per kilogram of cotton; and karakul export proceeds are converted at the rate of Af 200 per pound sterling. The proceeds from wool exports to countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agree- ments are converted at the rate of Af 67 = US$1; 30 percent of the proceeds from wool exports to other countries are converted at the rate of Af 55 = US$1, and the remaining 70 percent are converted at the rate of Af 100 = US$1. The proceeds from raisin exports to coun- tries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agree- ments are required to be received in convertible currencies and surrendered. In addition, the convertible foreign exchange purchased by Da Afghan is tan Bank from en- terprises and from raisin exports is sold to public enter- prises at a rate that is Af 1.2 less than the rates applicable to purchases; if the central bank is unable to provide foreign currency to the public enterprises at these favor- able rates, the enterprise may, as a last resort, purchase the required exchange from the bazaar. Transactions that are not required to be effected with the banks may take place at the legal bazaar rate. Exports other than those mentioned above can be sold to the banks at rates near the bazaar rate. There is also a legal bazaar rate in which workers' remittances are sold and various capital flows are transacted; on December 31, 1986 the bazaar rate was Af 160 - US$1. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. Administration of Control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such com- modities, except for cotton, whose export is reserved for four authorized companies. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral paymen ts agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. The proceeds from exports of wool and karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e .g ., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program is drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce, covering imports of both the public and private sectors. Ad jus tmen ts in the public sector import plan are made in the light of changing circumstances. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. Importation of petroleum products and sugar is a state monopoly. The present customs tariff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates, ad valorem and spe- cific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 percent and 35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge m in imum import deposits with banks at the time of opening letters of credit; this requ iremen t, based on the Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control 'People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, and U.S.S.R. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN c.i.f. value of imports, ranges from 25 percent for essen- tials to up to 50 percent for other imports. Payments for Invisibles Tourists are permitted to take out up to US$2,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies, and traders can take out up to US$15,000 for imports of goods. When foreign travel is for other purposes, the permissible amounts are determined by the appropriate authorities in each case. Permission from the central bank or one of the commercial banks is necessary for taking out foreign currency. Exchange for private travel, as for other private purposes, has to be acquired in the bazaar market. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Export of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent by travelers is permitted only if the foreign exchange has been bought from the banking system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul and wool to all countries, including payments agreement countries, are received in convertible currencies. Receipts from exports of natural gas, karakul, cotton, and wool, are subject to 100 percent surrender requirements. Export proceeds from these products are converted at various exchange rates (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). In the case of trade under bilateral payments agreements, export proceeds may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the basic official rate of Af 50 = US$1. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 8, 10, or 12 months depending on the country of desti- nation. During the period the funds are held abroad, the exporter may use them for import of any goods other than those included in the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, the exporter may sell the proceeds to an importer who may use them to purchase abroad from a list of 33 specified items. At the end of the periods indicated above, the foreign exchange holdings abroad have to be repatriated to a non-interest-bearing foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan. After this transfer, the retained proceeds may be used by the exporter or sold to another importer only for importation from the list of 33 specified commodities referred to above. In all cases, sale of retained proceeds to other importers takes place at a negotiated exchange rate close to the rate prevailing in the free market. 68 Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors and 40 percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign experts and advisors paid from grants under aid programs must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of US$26 per day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country, subject to the above m in imum conversion re- quirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in Afghan banknotes and Af 50 in Afghan coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior ap- proval and is administered by an Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Inves tment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benef i ts, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new inves tmen t; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the inves tmen t; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved inves tmen t; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can only take place through joint ventures, with foreign partici- pation not exceeding 49 percent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Inves tment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold bullion and silver, as well as of jewe lry, require permission of Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments November 2. All private sector importers were required to lodge deposits at rates ranging from 25 percent of c.i.f. value for essential imports and up to 50 percent for other imports. Exports and Export Proceeds February 22. Export proceeds from karakul were con- verted at the rate of Af 200 = £ stg. 1. July 15. The proceeds from wool exports to countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agree- ments will be converted at the rate of Af 67 = US$1, whereas 30 percent of the proceeds from wool exports to other countries will be converted at the rate of Af 55 = US$1, and the remaining 70 percent will be converted at the rate of Af 100 - US$1. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and other specified currencies1 are estab- lished by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a fixed relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of paymen ts, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buy ing and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians working abroad. This premium is payable regardless of the freely convertible currency presented and is equal to the difference between the prevailing French franc/Algerian dinar daily rate and the fixed rate of F 1 = DA 1. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are required to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive pre- m ium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were DA 4.8218 - US$1 and DA 4.8312 - US$1, respectively. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day bu t, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documen tary credits outside Algeria. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their application by the authorized banks. Au thor i ty over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce w i th in the limits of a general import program. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Inves tment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no paymen ts agreements are in force are made in convertible curren- 'Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Nor- wegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 70 cies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which paymen ts are made by the Algerian contracting par ty; such accounts must be closed within six months from the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with payments from any coun try. Balances in such accounts opened prior to January 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those under supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for paymen ts to any foreign country, for paymen ts in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a notary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other paymen ts, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited w i thout prior approval for certain pay- ments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- 2Specified noncommercial se t t lemen ts with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a d irham account at the Bank of Morocco, and an account in Tunisian dinars, at the Central Bank of Tunisia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution devises). Depositors receive an incentive premium equiv- alent to 40 percent of the buy ing exchange rate on the conversion date of such foreign exchange. 4. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical Algerian nationals, who may be either nonresi- dents or persons who have resided for more than six mon ths in a foreign coun try. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that have been declared at the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank- to-bank book transfers. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. A conversion premium is received on any amount drawn and used for payment of expenses in the coun try, with the exception of legal payment obligations. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed annually by the Minister of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978 gives the Government a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import program. This is implemented mainly through global import au- thorizations (autorisations globales d'importation, or AGI) granted to public enterprises. There are five types of import authorizations: (1) AGI Monopole, issued to en- terprises holding monopoly rights to import specified commodities; (2) AGI de fonctionnement interne, issued to individual enterprises for import requirements relating to their production activity; (3) AGI objectif planifie, issued to enterprises for imports relating to their invest- ment program; (4) AGI (sans paiement), under which exemption from all exchange control formalities is granted to transactions not involving use of official foreign ex- change or local currency or any other counterparts. (Since 1986 it has been possible to open foreign currency ac- counts, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person of Algerian nationality resident in Algeria. The rules for operating such accounts and the rates of interest payable on assets held in these accounts are the same as for foreign currency accounts opened by persons of Algerian nationality who are nonresidents or who have been resident abroad for more than six mon ths); and (5) AGI (sans transfer), issued to enterprises for specified import products (classified as consumable products— matieres consommables) utilized in public works con- tracts; simplified exchange and trade control formalities applied to such transactions. Special regulations apply to imports of a noncommercial character, and for imports without payment of new equipment not destined for resale, as well as to auto- mobiles for personal use. Imports not destined for resale may be made free of exchange and trade controls up to ALGERIA a value of DA 10,000. New equipment goods can also be imported w i thout use of official exchange and free of exchange and trade control formalities, provided that (1) the value in each case does not exceed DA 200,000, and (2) the goods are not for resale; the list of goods that can be thus imported is established from time to time by ministerial decree. Domestic residents can obtain an authorization to import an automobile for personal use, without use of official exchange and free of exchange and trade control formalities. All imports must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be pre- sented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Without a waiver from the exchange control authority (the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank), advance payments may not exceed 15 percent of the import value. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured do- mestically. In the case of urgent or exceptional import expenditures by public agencies, public enterprises, and ministerial departments, the domiciliary banks for the import paymen ts may effect payment before completion of the trade and exchange control formalities. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting docu- ments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Admin- istration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain paymen ts, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational ex- penses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises), may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of family remit- tances is suspended. Insurance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian residents must be purchased in Algeria. Private national exporters may open ED AC accounts (i.e., exporters' Convertible Dirham Accounts) denominated in convertible dinars, which can be credited with up to 4 percent of repatriated proceeds and be used for any of the following payments: business travel allow- ances; air travel expend i tures; salaries and expenditures of foreign technicians; imports of essential spare parts and capital goods amounting to less than DA 200,000; representations at overseas trade fairs and exhibitions; and legal and administrative expenses. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 50 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria; and 70 percent for persons 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA whose families are abroad. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employment documen ts, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 35 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria and 55 percent for persons whose families are abroad. The payments must be transferred once a mon th on the basis of the remu- neration for the previous mon th. Persons making such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. For resident nationals and individuals of foreign na- tionality having resident status (excluding those having an entitlement to make transfers) traveling by air or sea to foreign countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, for purposes other than medical trea tmen t, the foreign exchange allocation is the equivalent of DA 1,000 every two calendar years for a person over 18 years of age and is provided on presentation of a valid passport and travel vouchers; the same allocation is granted for overland travel. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad receive a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are required to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive premium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allocation in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allowance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furn ished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon en try. However, on their arrival in Algeria, foreign nonresidents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a m in imum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for traveling abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and mach inery, livestock, firearms, ammun i t ion, explosives, and certain radio equ ipmen t, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports require a license, except those under- taken by state enterprises having a monopoly right to export. Some commodities may be exported, subject to individual prior approval, on the basis of linked trans- actions (transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978, which conferred upon the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may only be effected by public sector en t i t ies, 72 unless a waiver is granted for a transitional period on a case-by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after collection. Unless a waiver is granted by the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank of Algeria, the time limit for repatriation of export proceeds is 120 days from the date of shipment. However, for exports of hydrocarbons, the time limit is a maximum of 30 days after the completion of loading. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price a barrel that is fixed by agreement with the com- panies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sur- rendered. Savings repatriated in the form of convertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes, coin (except gold coin), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Non- resident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign inves tmen ts of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 percent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and inves tmen ts of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of inves tmen ts approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair re turn on inves tmen t, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvestment profits, and the repatriation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Na- tionale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes During 1986 Payments for Invisibles February 1. The allowance for travel abroad for pur- poses other than medical treatment was fixed at DA 1,000 every two years for a person over 18 years of age; prev ious ly, the same allowance was granted once a year. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Car- ibbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 percent; the m in imum levy is EC$1 a transaction. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licensing is required for a range of products, particularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Economic Development, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms in tourist-oriented indus- tries or in export trades where most receipts are in foreign currency and a large portion of inputs are imported or are financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Angu i l la, Dom- inica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev i s, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the Grenad ines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 74 report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a mon th ly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license granted by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other com- modities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Authority is dele- gated to commercial banks to approve application forms for import licenses after confirming sight of documents. The approved forms must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance on a weekly basis. Imports that are exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions, for machinery, equ ipmen t, and raw materials, are granted on a case-by-case basis and generally under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Import duties are levied at the rate of 35 percent in line with the CARICOM common external tariff. Payments for Invisibles Upon presentation of supporting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical expenses. Official authorization is required be- yond these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually exempted from the foreign exchange levy. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain commodities to any destination. No surrender of export proceeds is required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U .S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, Ministry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charity purposes, are usually granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital move- men ts. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for inves tment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. . Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Argentina is the Austral (plural Aus- trales). The exchange rate for the austral in terms of U.S. dollars is announced on a daily basis by the Central Bank of Argentina. On December 31, 1986 the closing rate for the austral in terms of the U.S. dollar was A 1.331 = US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 0.6 percent. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers; such operations must be related to trade transactions, financial loans, or other transactions for which direct sale of foreign currency is permitted. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Virtually all paymen ts between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Under an agreement maintained w i th Bolivia, a fixed proportion of Argen t ina's paymen ts for Bolivia's natural gas exports is made in to a non-interest-bearing account at the Central Bank of Argentina, and it is used solely for purchases of Argentine goods to be consumed in Bolivia and for Bolivia's debt- service payments to Argentina. Argentina maintains re- ciprocal credit arrangements with Cuba, Poland, and the U .S .S .R. by means of special accounts in each central bank through which transactions are settled. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 76 Authorized banks may open accounts in australes and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import paymen ts may be effected in convertible cur- rencies, except as otherwise specified in the regulations on prescription of currency. Settlement of paymen ts for imports by the private sector may be freely effected by authorized financial entities, provided that the financing conforms to terms established by the Central Bank and that payment is effected not earlier than one or two days prior to the due date; otherwise, if payment is not effected on the due date, it is postponed for a m in imum period as defined in the prevailing regulation for such an operation. The payment may be effected before the expiration of the m in imum period if the domestic debtor pays a premium to the Central Bank that takes account of the differential between the foreign and domestic interest rates for the period since the original maturity date of the obligation. Imports and related paymen ts by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a stamp du ty of 0.6 percent and selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 22 percent. Most public and private sector imports require an import license (Certificate of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import) issued by the National Import Directorate. An exception is made for imports of up to US$500 per month in any single customs classification by any single importer (subject to an annual limit of US$6,000 per importer for each category of goods), which can be processed directly by the in terven ing bank without the prior issuance of an import license by the Commerce Secretariat. Certain public enterprises are also permitted to import under foreign treaties without the issuance of an import license. Import licenses are issued only after the importer has placed w i th a bank a deposit equal to either the estimated du ty payable on the import, or 5 percent of the import value, in cases of lower or equivalent value. The deposits are blocked un t il the import du ty is paid or for a period of 90 days, whichever is earlier; they are indexed in terms of the U.S. dollar. The following set of procedures apply to the acquisition of an import license for all imports that require licensing. While the import of goods classified as "nonessential" (List I) is technically prohibited, all goods on List I have been transferred to List II (see below) on a temporary basis. The goods temporarily on List II include consumer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods and industrial inputs for which close substitutes are amply available in Argentina. The prohibition on the importation of goods on List I, when it applies, does not apply to temporary imports, goods included in the border traffic scheme, or samples and prototypes. The Secretary of Commerce is empowered to grant import licenses for goods on List I when the item is considered necessary for scientific or technical reasons, or in light of the quan t i ty or quality of domestic production. Most capital goods, certain industrial inpu ts, and goods temporarily transferred from the list of prohibited goods are included in List II. For goods on this list, the Indus try and Commerce Secretariat issues import licenses in con- sultation with an Honorary Import Advisory Committee on which both government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organizations are represented. When the Industry Secretariat does not approve an import license request, the Commerce Secretariat is empowered to study the individual case and make a determination. Import licenses for certain raw materials and inputs for the pharmaceutical indus try and for medical and health services (List III) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action, and licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces require the prior approval of the Min- istries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses are granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing provisions. These include goods imported under the Temporary Admission Regime. Also, goods imported under conces- sions granted by any instrument of the LAIA agreement are exempt from the prohibition applicable to goods on List I and the review requirement for goods on List II. Import licenses are issued automatically for goods covered under the Argentine-Uruguayan Economic Cooperation Agreement. Once granted, an import license retains its validity for 120 days. The actual import value (f .o .b .) must be no more than 10 percent above the stated value of the sworn declaration submitted in application for an import license. Countertrade is permitted for firms engaging in the exportation of promoted exports. In such cases, import payments can take the form of the exportation of promoted goods. Most imports are subject to m in imum financing terms of at least 180 days, calculated from the date of shipment. However, imports of goods on the negotiated lists from the LAIA have a m in imum financing term of 90 days. Most other imports from Latin America, including those from the Central American Common Market (CACM), Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Panama, are subject to m in imum financing terms of 120 days from shipment. Payment against shipping documents is per- mitted in the following cases: goods imported from Bolivia (within the LAIA framework); from Brazil ("negotiated goods"); Chile ("negotiated goods"); Ecuador ("nego- tiated goods"); Mexico (goods under trade compensation programs); Paraguay (certain specified goods); Peru (goods negotiated under LAIA Agreement No. 6); Uruguay ARGENTINA (goods negotiated under the Partial Scope Agreement on Economic Complementation No. 1 and the 1984 Agricul- tural Agreement); and goods imported by Antarctica and the Islands of the South Atlantic and destined for the Special Customs Area established by Law No. 19640;2 also fresh fru it received on consignment basis; and periodicals. Special m in imum financing terms apply to imports of capital goods valued at more than US$50,000. Not more than 5 percent of the f.o.b. value may be settled prior to shipment, and an additional 10 percent may be paid upon the submission of shipping documents. The balance of 85 percent is to be paid in equal installments beginning not earlier than six months after shipment, according to the following schedule: Value of Import (f.o.b.) (In thousands of U.S. dollars] 50- 250 250- 500 500-1,000 1,000-1,500 1,500-2,000 More than 2,000 Minimum Financing Term 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years To be determined upon consultation with the Central Bank Imports of capital goods for which financing amounting to 85 percent of the f.o.b. value is provided by interna- tional organizations or official creditors are exempt from these m in imum terms, as are imports by firms located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic. Payments for Invisibles Certain paymen ts for invisibles require prior approval by the Central Bank. In general, the sale of foreign exchange at the official rate is not permitted for travel abroad; however, in exceptional cases, the Central Bank may approve the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad for medical treatment or for participation in trade fairs. With the exception of transfers of profits and dividend earnings, authorized entities may carry out most types of transactions without prior authorization of the Central Bank. Some transactions require consultation with the Central Bank if the amount of the transaction exceeds specified limits. Exports and Export Proceeds M in imum export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The full f.o.b. proceeds from all exports 2Imports destined for the Special Cus toms Area of Tierra del Fuego are subject to the following m in imum f inanc ing terms: 75 days for imports on the "Negotiated List" shipped from and originating in LAIA countries; 105 days for "non-negotiated" imports from the LAIA and imports from the CACM, Cuba, the Dominican Repub l ic, Haiti, or Panama; and 150 days for imports from all other countries. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA must be repatriated and surrendered; the proceeds must not be less than the reference price, or if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Proceeds from traditional exports must be received before shipment by means of advance payments or irrevocable letters of credit payable against shipping documents in Argentina. Proceeds from promoted exports must be repatriated within 180 days from the date of shipment. In both cases, export proceeds must be sur- rendered within 15 working days from the respective time limits. Traditional exports (wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, edible oil, beef, and processed hides) are subject to export taxes. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates of estimated indirect taxes paid in the process of production. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for additional rebates ranging from 7 to 12 percent. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for other export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a number of special f inanc ing regimes to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services. Also, the Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and ordinary risks and also coverage for extraordinary risks (on the account of the Central Government) for exports of capital goods and other specified consumer goods. Certain products, mostly nontraditional exports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Various export incentives are provided for promoted exports in accordance with the Export Promotion Laws of December 16, 1984. These include: (1) a deduction from taxable profits, up to 10 percent of the value of certain exports; (2) the creation of export consortiums and cooperatives and the granting of an incentive equal to 4 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports over a period of five years; (3) the establishment of international trading companies; (4) permission for firms to engage in coun- tertrade when marketing promoted exports; (5) a tax drawback scheme under which rebates would be allowed for taxes of imported inputs and other taxes; (6) the elimination of the 0.5 percent stamp tax for exports from the Federal Capital Area; and (7) the fund ing of an Export Promotion Fund to finance participation in trade fairs and exhibitions. Under the ARGEX program, enterprises that can es- tablish that their export receipts are at least three times their import payments are eligible for automatic and unrestricted access to the Temporary Admission Regime for all inputs and intermediate products and to prefinanc- ing. Under the Special Export Programs, exporters of specified goods who commit themselves to expanding exports are eligible for special payments from the Treasury of up to 15 percent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports, for access to Central Bank prefinancing, and for other benef i ts. 78 For traditional exports, the maximum terms for antic- ipated payments and foreign currency export prefinance are 120 days for processed goods, such as edible oils and processed meats, and 90 days for grains and other un- processed agricultural products. For nontraditional ex- ports, the maximum term for anticipated payments and foreign currency export prefinance is 180 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts obtained in the country or abroad by Argentine shipping companies, airlines, or surface transportation companies from freight and fares and foreign currency receipts from insurance, reinsurance or losses, lease of ships, airplanes or other surface means, and space or storage in Argentine ports must be surren- dered within 30 days of receipt. Foreign exchange derived from other invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Capital Proceeds from financial loans must be sold in the foreign exchange market as an eligibility condition for subsequent sales of foreign exchange to amortize such loans. Financial credits must have maturities of at least 360 days and in all cases must have fixed maturity dates. Principal and interest payments for loans received after November 28, 1984 may be effected directly through authorized entities on the maturity date without prior Central Bank autho- rization. All amortization payments for loans received prior to November 28, 1984 and not related to import operations carried out in accordance with the minimum conditions specified for such payments may be settled through the subscription of U.S. dollar bonds of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic, payable in 15 semiannual installments, with a grace period of three years. All loans outstanding and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of December 4, 1982 and all loans for which the domestic borrower has obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank and which fell due through the end of 1985 have been extended under m in imum terms established by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements that fell due in 1985 were either to be rescheduled by means of the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA Notes) with a ten-year maturity, or by a direct refinancing between debtor and creditor for up to five years followed by the issuance of a BCRA Note for the remainder of a ten-year period. Loans covered by exchange rate guarantees that fell due in 1986 were rescheduled by means of the issuance of U .S. dollar- denominated obligations of the Government of Argentina (Notes) with a ten-year maturity. The holders of contracts with an exchange guarantee have the option of their early cancellation. Under the option, the domestic debtor accepts a U.S. dollar-denominated bond for that part of the underlaying obligation for which the Government is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution responsible as a result of the foreign exchange contract. The debtor continues to owe the difference in the amount of the obligation. However, such amounts are deleted from the Central Bank registry and their servicing is not eligible for the purchase of foreign exchange at the official rate. Pending the conclusion of discussions with creditor commercial banks for a multiyear rescheduling starting in 1986, private sector obligations due to commercial banks have been subject to 180-day rollovers negotiated with the Steering Committee of the banks. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local for- eign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign en- terprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their subsidiaries requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign cur- rency sight or term deposits; in the latter case, deposits must be for the account and to the order of the Central Bank, with maturities of 60-360 days. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. The foreign investment regime is governed by the Foreign Inves tment Law (codified text of 1980), which incorporates the amendmen ts made under Law No. 22208 to Law No. 21382. Promulgated by Decree No. 1062 of June 30, 1980, the Foreign Inves tment Law is regulated by Decree No. 103 of January 19, 1981. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency in the form of new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine currency belonging to foreign investors (provided that they are legally transferable abroad); capitalization of external credits received in freely convertible foreign currency; intangible assets; and any other form acceptable to the implementing authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. For approval purposes, inves tmen ts are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) Subject to prior approval by the National Executive are (a) inves tmen ts in the defense and national security sectors, in public service sectors including the postal system, electricity, gas, telecommunications, computers, electronic equipment, and in radio transmitters, television stations, newspapers, periodicals and magazines, energy, education, and financial and insurance institutions; (b) transfers of capital and the acquisition of shares (the latter is permissible only in exceptional cases when it is mani- festly beneficial to the national economy) that involve changing the national ownership structure of a local firm belonging to national investors and having net assets exceeding US$10 million; (c) new transfers of freely convertible foreign currency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; (d) investment in any of Argentina's stock markets, provided that the amount ARGENTINA does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company involved; (e) inves tmen ts in which the investor is a juridical person under public law; and (f) investments in which special or promotional benefits are requested that can only be granted by the National Executive and the proposed inves tment is contingent on them. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) total or partial reinvestment of a registered foreign investor's profits (even in the sectors referred to in item (1) above), provided that they do not involve changing the national ownership structure of the receiving firm and are intended to foster the activities for which the original investment was approved or in which the firm was engaged when the law entered into force; (b) new investments in freely con- vertible foreign currency made for the same purposes as mentioned in item (1) above, and not exceeding 30 percent of the registered capital in the receiving firm and which do not involve converting it into a "domestic firm with foreign capital," or new investments that are made pursuant to a preferential right and in order to maintain an interest equal to or lower than what was held up to that time; (c) new transfers of freely convertible foreign currency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; and (d) inves tment in any of Argentina's stock markets, provided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company involved. (3) All other foreign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision within 120 days from the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are governed by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscription and recognition. Existing and new foreign inves tmen ts, as well as all capital movemen ts relating thereto, may be recorded in the Register of Foreign Inves tmen ts, which is kept by the Ministry of Economy. Since September 1984, the Central Bank has entertained applications for the capitalization into foreign direct inves tment of principal falling due with an exchange rate guarantee. From February to September 1985, many such applications were approved, but since then approval has not been forthcoming. In addition, although no Central Bank circular has provided formal authorization, certain requests for the capitalization into foreign direct invest- ment of swaps falling due were approved in 1985. No transactions of this type took place in 1986. Registered foreign investments may generally be re- patriated three years after entry into Argentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was ap- proved. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA the remittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securities denominated in foreign currency at the rate of interest prevailing in the international market, against provision of the equivalent in Argentine currency; this regulation is applied under Decree No. 1506/84, which also prohibits the repatriation of capital. Profits on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on after-tax profit when they exceed 12 percent of registered capital on an annual basis. This tax is 15 percent for profits of more than 12 percent and up to 15 percent of registered capital, 20 percent for those of more than 15 percent and up to 20 percent of registered capital, and 25 percent for those of more than 20 percent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, ex- change houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or "good delivery" bars among themselves or buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical du ty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations on coined gold or "good delivery" gold with their clients, against foreign bank notes. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 12. The Central Bank of Argentina and Bank Handlowy of Warsaw, Poland, concluded a financial convention under which a reciprocal line of credit of US$40 million was established to facilitate the trade in goods and services. March 17. The importation of goods produced in Uruguay that are included under The Agricultural Agree- ment signed May 14, 1984 was made eligible for cash settlement. April 1. The Central Bank of Argentina announced that the duration of the financial convention with the Central Bank of Bolivia was extended through March 18, 1987. April 13. The Central Bank of Argentina announced that the duration of the line of credit with the Central Bank of Guatemala was extended until August 25, 1987. April 24. The Central Bank of Argentina announced the signing of a reciprocal credit agreement with Hungary. May 6. An industrial policy for the electronics sector was announced. The producers of specified products became eligible for various benefits that included: tariff protection; exemptions from corporate, capital, and stamp taxes for various periods of time; and exemptions or reduction in duties on imports. The exemptions from 80 import duties are to be effected through the issuance of "Certificates of Import Duty Exemption." June 11. The Central Bank announced that payments for the importation of products made in Bolivia, carried out in the framework of the Latin American Integration Association, could be effected against shipping documents. July 29. The authorities announced the signing of an integration agreement between Argentina and Brazil. Among the more important protocols were the following: procedures for the integration of the capital goods market; undertakings by Argentina to sell and by Brazil to buy m in imum quantities of wheat in the period 1987-90; and the establishment of reciprocal lines of credit by the respective central banks (Protocol 6). September 4. Any merchandise that is used as an input in an exported product was made eligible for the Tem- porary Admission Regime, i.e., its importation was ex- empt from all tariffs, duties, or taxes. September 19. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced that the line of credit with the Central Bank of El Salvador was increased to US$25 million and its duration extended to May 17, 1987. September 19. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced that the duration of the line of credit with the Central Bank of Uruguay was extended until June 4, 1987. September 30. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced the establishment of a line of credit with the National Bank for External Commerce (Mexico) in the amount of US$50 million for the financing of trade in goods and services. Payments for Invisibles January 2. Public sector borrowers as well as private sector borrowers with government guarantee were al- lowed to buy, without prior authorization, foreign ex- change to effect operations related to the following: (1) authorized obligations restructured within the general restructuring agreement of August 1, 1985; (2) interest payments on principal that had not been restructured within that agreement; (3) penalty interest payments at rates established by the Central Bank in accordance with the 1984-85 Financing Plan; (4) commercial debts of up to one year, including those that had been rolled over; (5) leasing contracts for ships and planes; (6) interest payments on bonds; (7) interest payments and amorti- zation related to contracts with the IBD and the IBRD; (8) financial obligations contracted after September 12, 1982; and (9) payments on obligations subject to resched- uling but whose amount is less than US$25,000. January 14. Private sector interest paymen ts on finan- cial loans were allowed to be effected without prior authorization. January 14. Financial or commercial obligations accru- ing from the execution of investment projects that increase or consolidate exports could be amortized according to their schedule, and subject to certain safeguards, through the same exchange market in which related export pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ceeds are repatriated. This arrangement is to be preserved in the fu tu re regardless of any particular exchange ar- rangements that might be in place. July 7. Subject to certain limits, the sale of foreign exchange to effect certain invisibles paymen ts generated or incurred on or after January 7, 1986 was to be allowed without prior authorization. The affected obligations in- cluded: insurance prem iums; rental of containers; sales commissions; costs of registration of patents and trade- marks; authors' royalties; telephone, postal and telex expenses; purchases of books, newspapers, and maga- zines; contributions to retirement plans abroad; infor- mation services; dues of international organizations; fees related to international congresses, meetings, or fa irs; cost of health treatment abroad; remuneration of con- tracted foreign personnel; royalties; technical services; payments of alimony; salaries of Argentine personnel assigned abroad; and sale of exchange to foreign tourists from nonadjacent countries at the end of their stay in the country and after presentation of evidence that the amount brought exceeded the amount requested. July 7. The Central Bank of Argen t ina announced that public and publicly guaranteed obligations related to suppliers' credits for technical services and commercial loans not exceeding US$1 million with an initial ma tur i ty of more than one year could be settled as follows: interest paymen ts at a rate of LIBOR plus !3/s; and principal pay- ments by the issuance of foreign currency-denominated bonds. If the obligations are less than US$50,000, they can be settled by cash paymen ts. The debtors of obliga- tions exceeding US$1 million were to consult w i th the authorities. October 10. The Central Bank of Argentina announced the rules for the servicing of public and publicly guar- anteed external debt related to suppliers' credits and other commercial operations with original ma tur i ty of more than one year falling due in 1986. The following operations were allowed to be effected w i thout prior authorization: interest paymen ts based on either the contracted or LIBOR rate plus a spread of !3/s percent, whichever is less; principal obligations of less than US$50,000 could be made in cash, whereas principal obligations of between US$50,000 and US$1 million would be discharged by the issuance of dollar-denominated obligations of the Gov- e rnment of Argentina. In the case of principal obligations of more than US$1 million, consultation w i th the author- ities is required. Exports and Export Proceeds January 6. The period for the surrender of foreign exchange from exports of meat was set at 45 days. February 4. A Special Export Programs was established which provided for subs idy paymen ts of up to 15 percent of increases in the value of exports, access to Central Bank prefinancing, and other benef i ts. The programs were to be negotiated with the authorities and limited to a specified list of products. February 19. Export taxes on a number of products were reduced. ARGENTINA March 14. A registry of Special Export Programs was established, the list of eligible products was expanded, and domestic suppliers of exporters were made eligible for benefits under the program. July 18. Export consortia, export cooperatives, and international trading companies were made eligible for export financing and countertrade operations. July 29. The authorities announced the signing of an integration agreement between Argentina and Brazil. Among the more important protocols were the following: procedures for the integration of the capital goods market; undertakings by Argentina to sell and by Brazil to buy m in imum quantities of wheat in the period 1987-90; and the establishment of reciprocal lines of credit by the respective central banks. July 29. The Central Bank of Argentina announced the issuance of implementing norms for obligations subject to Decree 63 (the preservation of un i ty of markets). August 29. Export taxes on a number of products were eliminated. August 29. The compensatory ad jus tment mechanism (i .e ., protection of exporters against adverse changes in the real price of their exports) was made available to exporters of specified products and for suppliers of tu rnkey projects. August 29. Suppliers of tu rnkey projects were made eligible for benef i ts under the Special Export Programs. September 4. Exporters of specified manufactured goods were made eligible for paymen ts of 10 percent, 12.5 percent, or 15 percent (depending on the product) of the f .o .b. value of exports to approximate the drawback of indirect taxes paid by the producers in the process of production and commercialization of the products. September 4. Enterprises that can establish that their export receipts are at least three times their import paymen ts were made eligible for benef i ts including au- tomatic and unrestricted access to the Temporary Ad- mission Regime for all inpu ts and intermediate products and to pref inanc ing. September 17. The max imum interest rates that com- mercial banks may charge on the financing of promoted exports was set at 4!/2 percent per annum; the banks could borrow funds for this purpose from the Central Bank of Argentina at 23/4 percent per annum. Capital January 27. Principal paymen ts on public and publicly guaranteed debt were made subject to 90-day and 180- day rollovers (depend ing on the due date of paymen t ), with interest paymen ts set at LIBOR plus P/8 percent. June 6. The Central Bank of Argentina announced a rollover of 180 days of all principal paymen ts falling due between January 1, 1986 and September 30, 1986, except those set out in Chapter 2 of Communication A 695 of Ju ly 1, 1985. At the option of the foreign creditor, the obligations could be rescheduled also for 180 days. June 9. Pending the conclusion of rescheduling nego- tiations, the Central Bank of Argentina announced the regulations for the regularization of private sector debts 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA with exchange rate guarantees of the Central Bank. Upon maturity, the contracts would be rescheduled through the issuance of dollar-denominated obligations of the Republic of Argentina maturing in 180 days and carrying an interest rate of either LIBOR plus P/s percentage points or a prime rate plus 1 percentage point. September 1. The Central Bank of Argentina announced the mandatory rollover for a m in imum period of one year of all commercial obligations of the private sector that are not included in the refinancing program. September 17. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced the regulations for the registration of external debt obligations subject to a possible rescheduling with the members of the Paris Club that fall due in 1986, including the constitution of local currency deposits for obligations that were not guaranteed Argentine public entities. November 11. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced that the obligations subject to mandatory roll- overs could be effected earlier, provided that the debtor pays a premium to the Central Bank that takes account of the differential between the foreign and domestic interest rates since the original maturity date of the obligation. November 12. The Central Bank of Argentina an- nounced the introduction of an option for the early cancellation of private sector debts with an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank. Under the program, the domestic debtor accepts a U.S. dollar-denominated bond for that part of the under ly ing obligation for which the Government is responsible as a result of the foreign exchange contract. The debtor continues to owe the difference between the debt assumed by the Government and the original amount of the obligation. Such amounts are deleted from the Central Bank registry and their servicing is not eligible for the purchase of foreign exchange at the official rate. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the closing buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were $A 1.504 - US$1 and $A 1.505 - US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Trading banks and authorized nonbank financial insti- tu t ions are allowed to engage in foreign exchange trans- actions and may deal among themselves and with their customers at mu tua l ly negotiated rates. Dealers may hold foreign currency balances (spot and forward) or incur foreign currency liabilities (spot and forward) w i th in limits established by the Reserve Bank for each dealer. In addition, there is a foreign currency hedge market in which dealers match the currency hedge requirements of their customers at market-determined rates. Nonresidents may transact business in this market, although it is a nondelivery market with all settlements effected in Aus- tralian dollars. As part of Australia's current foreign exchange arrange- ments, a range of outward foreign exchange transactions are subject to procedural requirements in order to meet the Government's taxation screening policies. A taxation clearance certificate issued by the Australian Taxation Office must be shown to authorized foreign exchange dealers before foreign exchange or other means of pay- ment is made available for certain transactions with residents of designated countries and areas2 and for emigrants' remittances in excess of $A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent to all countries. In respect of countries that are not designated for taxation screening purposes, foreign exchange dealers are obliged to require that their customers complete declaration forms for out- flows of more than $A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent and which relate to inves tmen ts, gifts, suste- nance and trust distributions, loans or loan repaymen ts, travel expenditure, remittances connected with fu tu res operations overseas and paymen ts of interest, d iv idends, service fees, or royalties. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. 'The Aus tra l ian dollar also circulates in several other coun tr ies, inc lud- ing Kiribati, N au ru, and Tuva lu. 2These are listed as The Bahamas, Be rmuda, Br i t ish Channel Islands, British V irg in Is lands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, L iech tens te in, Luxembou rg, N a u r u, the Ne the r lands Antilles, Panama, Switzerland, Tonga, and Vanua tu. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administering the remaining exchange control restrictions under Australia's current foreign exchange arrangements. (Most exchange controls were abolished on December 12, 1983.) Import and export controls are imposed on certain commodities pursuant to the Customs Act. These controls are admin- istered by the relevant ministers and departments ac- cording to regulations under that Act. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be settled in Australian currency or in any foreign currency ,3 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia in exchange for Australian currency must be under taken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer in Australia. Nonresident Accounts Financial institutions in Australia are permitted to offer accounts denominated in foreign currencies, but pur- chases and sales of foreign currency must be handled through authorized foreign exchange dealers in Australia. Central banks and certain international organizations may invest at interest in Australia without limit; other monetary institutions which hold official reserve assets, but which also have commercial-type investments, may invest of- ficial reserve assets at interest up to a limit agreed with the Reserve Bank of Australia. In all cases, the investing authority is asked to be a stable holder of Australian dollar assets and to consult with the Reserve Bank of Australia in the event of any significant changes in its Australian dollar portfolio. Nonresidents may withdraw their balances without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Nearly all goods may be imported without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Import restrictions, including quotas, are imposed on a small range of goods, although not for exchange control purposes; the restrictions are maintained mainly for reasons of indus try assistance, health, com- mun i ty protection, or security, or to sustain quality standards. There is provision in the Customs Tariff Antidumping Act 1975 for action to be taken when dumped imports have caused, are causing, or are threatening to cause material in jury to Australian industries. Dumping duties may be imposed unless the exporters voluntarily raise their export prices to the level necessary to remove in jury. 3Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, subject to the Governmen t's taxation screening requirements being met. (See section on Exchange Arrangements, above.) Travelers may take out of Australia up to $A 5,000 in Australian notes and coins in any combination. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency ins trumen ts (other than Australian currency notes and coins), provided that they brought them into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Export Control Act, Customs (Prohibited Export) Regulations, and the Wildlife Protection Regulation of Exports and Imports Act. There are no formalities covering the disposal of export proceeds. Under the Customs (Prohibited Export) Regulations, the export of specified minerals, metals, hydrocarbons, and nuclear-sensitive material is prohibited un less per- mission is granted by the Minister for Trade or an authorized person. Exports are controlled for d ifferent objectives for in- dividual mineral commodities. Depending on the com- mod i ty, the objectives may be one or more of the following: (1) pricing and other contractual conditions are fair in relation to the market, consistent with maximizing the trade benefits for Australia; (2) exports are in com- pliance with Australia's nuclear policy, international ob- ligations, and bilateral agreements where applicable, e.g., the Non-Proliferation Treaty, as well as bilateral agree- ments between Australia and each of its nuclear customer countries; (3) supplies are adequate for domestic require- men ts; and (4) the provisions of the Env ironment Protec- tion (Impact of Proposals) Act and the Australian Heritage Commission Act are me t. There are active controls on exports of a lum ina, baux- ite, coal, iron ore, u r an ium, and other materials of nuclear significance. On the completion of negotiations, exporters of these minerals are required to seek approval from the Department of Trade. For negotiation of contracts for the sale of u ran ium, they must meet the requirements of the Ministrial Determinations issued to the three producers. Exporters of ores, concentrates, matte and oxides of copper, lead, manganese, nickel (except nickel powder) and zinc, blister and refined copper, lead bullion, salt, petroleum products, and liquefied petroleum gas and condensate are given, on application, automatic approval to export expected shipments over designated periods. Approvals to export mineral sands are freely issued, except when the Government considers that env ironmen- tal reasons would make such exports undesirable. For exports of monazite and xeno t ime, additional require- ments must be met under the Governmen t's nuclear safeguards policy before export approval can be given. Exports of copper scrap and copper alloy scrap are embargoed, and quotas apply to secondary copper ingots 84 and other basic shapes made from scrap material. Export of petroleum and petroleum products to South Africa is prohibited. No other minerals are subject to control. Export control arrangements are under review. With respect to rural commodities, the Government follows the general principle that exporters should be the main negotiators for export contracts and that the market should determine prices. Generally, the export control power is not used but is held in reserve to be used if and when the need arises, consistent w i th the need to protect the national interest and to meet market access limitations imposed by importing countries. There are also provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Borrowings in Australia by foreign governmen ts, their agencies not similar to private sector commercial entities, and international organizations are not permitted. Central banks and certain international organizations may invest in Australia w i thout limit; other monetary ins t i tu t ions which hold official reserve assets but which also have commercial-type inves tmen ts may invest official reserve assets up to a limit agreed with the Reserve Bank of Australia. In all cases, the investing authority is asked to be a stable holder of Australian dollar assets and to consult with the Reserve Bank of Australia in the event of any significant changes in its Australian dollar portfolio. These inves tmen ts earn interest. Apart from these pro- visions and subject to the procedural requirements of the Gove rnmen t 's taxation screening arrangements being met in respect of certain outward remittances (tax clearances are required only in respect of dealings with specified tax havens ), transfers of capital from Australia and nonresi- dent inves tmen ts at interest in Australia may be under- taken w i thout formality. Direct inve s tment in Australia by nonres iden ts is sub- ject to the Gove rnmen t 's foreign inves tment policy, which is based on the recognition that foreign inves tment makes a substantial contribution to the development of Austria- lia's industries and resources. The Governmen t's policy is therefore to welcome and encourage long-term direct foreign investment that has beneficial economic effects and is consistent with the needs of the Australian com- mun i ty. Australia's foreign inves tment policy is concerned primarily with direct foreign inves tment that has signifi- cant implications for the levels of foreign ownership and foreign control of Australian indus tr ies and resources. Portfolio (debt and equity) investment is not subject to the policy. Certain types of investment proposals are subject to examination by the Foreign Inves tment Review Board, which is the advisory body to the Government on foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inves tment matters. Proposals subject to review include those falling w i th in the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act 1975; those involving the establishment of a new business or project, irrespective of size, in the media and civil aviation sectors, or in other sectors where the total amount of the inves tment is $A 10 million or more (including diversification into activities not previously undertaken directly in Australia and new projects in mining and primary industries); those involving direct inves tment by foreign governments or their agencies (excluding inves tmen ts related to their official represen- tation); and certain proposals to acquire real estate and undertake real estate development projects. The Foreign Takeovers Act is concerned with the acquisition of companies or businesses operating in Aus- tralia by foreign interests. The Act requires nonres iden ts, nonresident-controlled corporations or businesses, and Australian companies in which nonresidents have a sub- stantial shareholding to notify the Government of pro- posals to acquire, or alter, a substantial interest in a company. A substantial foreign interest is an interest of 15 percent or more in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or business by a single foreign interest, either alone or together with associates, or an interest of 40 percent or more in aggregate in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or bus iness by two or more foreign interests and their associates. Inves tmen ts in manufacturing, real estate for devel- opmen t, tourism activities, and nonbank financial inter- mediaries are approved unless judged contrary to the national interest. Proposals involving the services, insur- ance, processing of raw materials, and rural property sectors are approved if they provide economic benef i ts (or Australian equity in respect of new businesses). Acquisitions of existing mining operations are approved if suff ic ient economic benef i ts can be demons tra ted. Af ter inv i t ing applications for bank ing licenses, the Government selected 16 foreign banks in 1985 to establish banking operations in Australia. It is not envisaged that fur ther such invitations will be issued to foreign interests. The Governmen t's policy on uran ium projects provides for no fu r ther uranium mines to be developed and for fu r ther stages of the nuclear fuel cycle to be prohibited. Australian equ i ty participation guidelines apply in re- spect of new (nonuran ium) m in ing and primary indus try operations and acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate, rural properties (unless economic benefits have been demons tra ted), and stockbroking. These guidelines are applied flexibly. Australia's foreign inves tment policy also provides an incentive for the "naturalization" of predominantly foreign-owned companies. The naturalization process is an entirely vo lun tary one and may be entered into by companies that choose to increase the level of Australian participation in their Australian operations. Companies that elect to participate in the naturalization arrangements are entitled to certain benef i ts while they are naturalizing. In particular, they are accorded prior credit for achieving majority Australian ownership, thereby facilitating their AUSTRALIA participation in mining projects and ven tures that are subject to the Australian equity participation guidelines. The policy is applied flexibly and on a case-by-case basis. Every effort is made to avoid unnecessary interfer- ence in normal commercial processes, and recognition is given to the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscrimi- natory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign Inves tment Review Board, which acts as an independent source of advice to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in the formulation of their proposals. Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buy ing, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold other than Krugerrand, subject to normal customs procedures. However, the export of Australian gold coin in excess of five of the $A 200 denomination requires Reserve Bank approval. Changes During 1986 Capital July 1. It was announced that certain exemptions from interest withholding tax, including those relating to widely spread issues in overseas markets and offshore borrowings by government authorities, would be removed. Subse- quen t ly, on July 28 it was announced that the decision to remove the exemption concerning widely spread issues would not be proceeded w i th, in order to facilitate continued access by Australian borrowers to European and other capital marke ts. July 28. The following changes were made in the Gove rnmen t 's foreign inves tment policy as it applies to the manufac tur ing and real estate sectors: (1) Manufac tur ing. Suspension of previous policy re- qu iremen ts; inves tment proposals in this sector are now approved unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. (2) Rural Properties. The distinction in policy treatment between acquisitions of small and large (greater than $A 3 million) rural properties was removed, and the simple test (previously applied only to small rural properties) of economic benef i ts or 50 percent Australian equ i ty partic- ipation applied to all proposals. (Development expendi- ture of at least one third of the acquisition price constitutes suff ic ient economic benef i ts to warrant approval.) (3) Urban Real Estate (including service indus try real estate). The 50 percent Australian equ i ty participation guideline was abandoned for acquisitions of real estate for development and retention and for development and sale; all proposals of this k ind are now approved unless judged contrary to the national interest. The virtual prohibition of acquisitions of developed commercial real estate was removed, and acquisitions involving 50 percent Australian participation were now permitted. Where Aus- tralian equ i ty participation is not available, 100 percent acquisitions of developed commercial nonresidential real 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA estate will be allowed unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Consistent with the foregoing changes, previous re- quirements for the introduction of Australian equity in proposals involving the manufacturing and real estate for development sectors were allowed to lapse. July 28. It was announced that the dividend withholding tax (DWT) levied on foreign investors would be abolished on July 1, 1987, when a new corporate tax code is expected to be introduced. It was subsequently announced (December 10, 1986) that only dividends franked with importation credits under the new importation system will be exempt from the DWT. Under the existing system, the DWT is levied at the rate of 15 percent for residents of countries with which Australia has a double-taxation treaty, and at the rate of 30 percent for residents of other countries. These rates will continue to apply to dividends paid that are not franked with importation credits. November 5. Restrictions previously applying to the undertaking of investments at interest in Australia by central banks, foreign government agencies not akin to private sector commercial organizations, and international organizations were liberalized. Previously, the monetary authorities of only nine of Australia's near neighbors, the IBRD, and the ADB were permitted to invest their assets in Australia without limit. Under the new regulations, central banks, and all international organizations were no longer subject to limits on investments. These institutions were, however, required to report their Australian dollar holdings to the Reserve Bank, and assurances are to be sought from them that they will be a "stable holder" of Australian dollar assets. Any significant shifts in their Australian dollar portfolio would require prior consulta- tion with the Reserve Bank. No restrictions were placed on the types of interest-bearing investments permitted, and interest earned is exempt from Australian taxation. Other foreign government monetary institutions that are the holders of official foreign reserves for their respective countries, but which also undertake commercial type investments, may also undertake interest-bearing invest- ments in Australia. Such investments, however, must be made in consultation with the Reserve Bank, which may determine an amount up to which the investments will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes and, hence, the income from that would qualify for sovereign immun i ty from Australian taxation. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the authorities aim at maintaining a stable relation with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted up to 18 months, and forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 31, 1986 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 13.56 and S 13.57, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licens- es, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant ministry, namely, the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) for industrial products or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. For products falling under monopoly, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Ac- counts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between member countries of the IMF or the OECD and other countries. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents re- siding in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely opened by Austrian credit institutions on behalf of nonresidents without any formality other than a check by the credit institution of the nonresident status of the beneficiary when the schilling funds are obtained from the selling of freely convertible foreign currencies at a domestic credit institution. Such accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. Usually, licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative re- striction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses, but most are free of quantitative restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country they are imported from.1 Nearly all imports from GATT countries, their associated territories, and some other countries2 are liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. The importation of coffee and sugar is governed by the 'Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Re- public, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cote d'lvoire, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faeroe Islands and Greenland), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ire- land, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U .S .S .R ., United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uru- guay, Vanuatu, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA international agreements for these commodities. Nonli- beralized imports may be obtained under various proce- dures: name ly, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discretionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, e thyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potatoes, wheat, and corn- starch, preserved meat, w ine, and certain medicaments. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and bu t ter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law gov- erning livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain ag- ricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six mon ths, but this period may be extended for periods of three mon ths at a time. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, countries w i th which Austria makes settlements in con- vertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Preferences, special trea tment is provided for imports from the 31 least-developed countries as defined by the UN General Assemb ly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the Act. Payments for Invisibles With a few exceptions, invo lv ing transport and insur- ance transactions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve pay- ments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, com- missions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transac- tions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invisibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other paymen ts abroad up to S 10,000 (up to S 5,000 to non-IMF and non-OECD countries) may be made freely and at any time. The remaining paymen ts on account of invisibles to countries other than members of the IMF and the OECD with which settlements are made in convertible currencies require special licenses. Residents traveling abroad may buy exchange from authorized banks or may obtain, as short-term advances from nonresidents in multilateral countries, without lim- 88 itation, up to the equivalent of S 50,000; if the equivalent amount exceeds S 50,000, the Austrian National Bank has to be informed. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transportation. The use of credit cards abroad for travel expenditures is permitted. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 50,000 in Austrian bank notes and coin and any amount in foreign bank notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provi- sions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 50,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surren- dered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized paymen ts abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be declared w i th in eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited w i th an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign bank notes and coin w i thout l im i t. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities, shares, and participations in Austrian companies, and Austrian real estate is covered by a general license. In certain provinces, the acquisition of real estate is, how- ever, subject to the approval of the local authorities. Direct investments by nonresidents, except in the form of loans for nonproductive purposes, are also permitted by general authorization, if made with convertible cur- rencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances; for investments financed in other ways, au- thorization is granted on the merits of each case. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the Na- tional Bank and, in many cases, are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents. Import credit with a maturity customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of author- ized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation. The National Bank licenses financial loans ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with maturities of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus an additional amount. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept deposits in convertible currencies from abroad for inter- bank on-lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to th is limit. Major banks are permitted to borrow from nonresidents in foreign currency over the med ium and long term. Transactions and operations mentioned in the following three paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, pro- vided that they are concluded w i th residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign invest- ments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Aus- tria); and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and paymen ts due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonres- ident relatives, provided that the lender draws on his own resources. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- men t, to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such inves tment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad for the purpose of establishing a secondary residence, that is, intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year, to grant commercial or investment credits (provided that, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used w i th in Austria), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the management of the non- resident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude life insurance contracts in Aus- tria with nonresidents. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, Austrian securities and foreign se- curities issued in member countries of the IMF or the OECD with which settlements take place in convertible currencies and which are quoted in an official securities market;3 for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain excep- tions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the V ienna 3The general license does not apply to the purchase by res iden ts from nonresidents of securities of a participating na ture in wha tever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign inve s tment funds or by similar institutions of whatever k ind that assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Ind iv idual licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing ins t i tu t ion is subject to adequate surveillance. AUSTRIA Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept w i th such banks. Payments for these purchases to non- residents may be made in convertible currencies. Resi- dents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonres iden ts only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medallions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberal- izing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or w i th international finan- cial ins t i tu t ions. The Bank has authorized credit ins t i tu- tions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers ( inc lud ing nonresidents) gold coin that is not legal tende r; the prices are based on those for coin and unmanu fac tu red gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria, and against payment in schillings gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any fo rm, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Aus tr ia any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fu r the rmo re, domestic trading between residents in gold w i th a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold w i th a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold ref iners, and jewelers are per- mitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender (and thus tax free) are subject to value-added tax, which is at the general rate of 32 percen t; as an exception, sales of all "Dukaten" coins are subject to value-added tax at the rate of 20 percent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licens- es for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Indus try to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports w i th in its jurisdiction. Where th is law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 200 grams a person a trip and allowing resident travelers to specified member countries to export such coin up to a value of S 10,000 a person a trip. The National Bank 's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automati- cally by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Indus try. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement November I. Forward transactions were permitted for up to 18 mon ths, instead of up to 12 mon ths. Imports and Import Payments November 1. Credit cards were permitted to be used by residents traveling abroad for the purchase of goods to be imported for the personal use of the buyer. Payments for Invisibles November 1. The limit on the amount of Austrian notes and coin which residents may take out of the country was raised from S 15,000 to S 50,000. The limit on foreign exchange which residents may purchase from authorized banks for travel purposes was abolished; only a reporting requirement for purchases in excess of S 50,000 remained in force. Thus, licensing requ iremen ts for tourism pay- men ts, including the use of credit cards, were abolished. Capital November 1. Major banks were permitted to borrow from nonresidents in foreign currency over the medium and long term. The free purchase of quoted securities was extended to cover all securities quoted on a recog- nized securities exchange. Long-term borrowing from nonresidents for inves tment purposes was further liber- alized, and long-term borrowing by domestic enterprises from nonresident equity holders was permitted up to a loan/equity ratio of 3:1. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U .S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quo ted, the buy ing rate being based on the New York market mid- rate, and the selling rate 0.5 percent above the buy ing rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 percent buy ing and 0.75 percent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank 's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.10 is applied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A fu r ther tax of B$0.10 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment currency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an invest- ment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1986 the bid and offer rates reflecting this premium were 15 percent and 20 percent, respectively. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current paymen ts; the approval authority for import paymen ts, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawf ish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Depart- ment issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements 'This is foreign currency in respect of wh ich there is general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as inves tment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, l iqu ida t ion, redemption, or realization of property, or of direct inve s tmen ts outside The Bahamas. The use of inves tment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonres iden ts of foreign currency securities and the mak ing of direct inve s tmen ts outside The Bahamas. with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency2 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for w in ter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open Ex- ternal Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonres ident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on regis- tered inves tmen ts may also be credited to these accounts with the Central Bank 's approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the inves tment currency market at any time; they may also be inves ted, with the Central Bank 's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or humanitarian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making paymen ts for imports, irrespective of origin;4 this approval is normally given automatically upon sub- mission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of i Vz percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current paymen ts. Au- thorized dealers can make paymen ts to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 3Persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not perm i t ted to hold External Accoun ts in Bahamian dollars. 4Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Is lands, where th is authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS w i th in specified limits. Such paymen ts include freight, ships' d isbursemen ts, commissions, royalties, education, and insurance paymen ts. Residents are en t i t led, on ap- plication to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of his re turn to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$ 10,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside The Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employ- ment in The Bahamas. A traveler may take out Bahamian banknotes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not take out notes of any other country, except with the specific approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six mon ths of sh ipmen t; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requ iremen ts are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes. The import of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident- owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subse- quent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents 92 acquire control of or participate in an incorporated com- pany controlled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts.5 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the inves tmen t, whichever is greater, for invest- ments from which the additional benef i ts expected to accrue to the balance of paymen ts from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the invest- ment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Inves tmen ts abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Per- mission is not given for inves tmen ts that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of paymen ts. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Special pro- cedures apply to investments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981, which came into effect on November 1, 1983: foreigners intending to purchase land must make application to the Foreign Inves tmen ts Board, a group of designated ministers of the Governmen t. If such application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all inves tmen ts with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned trading profits and in- vestment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each fam i ly. Any incidental expenses con- nected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with inves tment currency; expen- ditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than 5Banks and t rus ts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by will, for the benef it of nonres iden ts, in line with the provisions of the Immovable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981. A resident may make cash gifts to nonres iden ts not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption from certain exchange control obligations, notably w i th respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an Ex ternal Accoun t, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange marke t; interest, d iv idends, and capital paymen ts on such secu- rities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with inves tment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in The Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Baham- ian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.6 All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the inves tment currency marke t; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the coun try with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving The Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new coun try of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of the ir Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the inves tment currency market at any time. Af ter a person's redesignation as a nonres iden t, income accruing from his assets remaining in The Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. 6There are 12 banks and trust companies authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive secu r i t ies in deposit. THE BAHAMAS Residents other than authorized banks require permis- sion to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direc- tions with regard to their lend ing of foreign currency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay inter- est on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Baham ian dollars. When permis- sion is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet paymen ts to nonresidents for wh ich permission has been specifically given. A resident company that is who l ly owned by nonresi- den ts is not normally allowed to raise work ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total inves tmen t. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally determined in relation to the resident interest in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and o ther lenders resident in The Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank ), which is resident in The Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whe ther directly or ind irec t ly, by nonres iden ts. However, companies that are set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from res- iden ts either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a foreign currency normally are permitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current indus tr ial requ iremen ts. Au- thorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coin. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import du ty on gold bullion or gold coin; however, an import du ty of 35 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to the customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewe lry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denom ina t ions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system during 1986. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 - SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of plus or m inus 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and since December 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.6596. With the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other major cur- rencies in the early 1980s, the exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR remained outside the 7.25 percent margin throughout the period May 1981-June 1986. The exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR returned to within the 7.25 percent margin in July 1986 and was within that margin at end-December 1986. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) is adjusted from time to time. The Agency also quotes daily rates for the pound sterling and the deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1986 the Agency's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. The Agency does not deal w i th the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic bever- ages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. 94 Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonres iden ts. Offshore banking un i ts are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufac tured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Imports of a few com- modities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alco- holic beverages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. Exchange for paymen ts in respect of permitted imports may be obtained free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported free ly. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents, but paymen ts may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign inves tmen ts in Bahrain may be transferred abroad free ly, with the exception that under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture operates a center for the dissemination of information on the stock exchange. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 percent customs du ty but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other com- modities) requires approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering with the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. BAHRAIN 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1986 the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 30.8 - US$1. On December 31, 1986 the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 30.77 and Tk 30.83, respectively, per US$1. On the same date the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 30.7387 and Tk 30.8613, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Different effective exchange rates arise from the operation of the Secondary Exchange Market, which comprises the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES) and the Export Performance Benefit (XPB) Scheme. Under the WES, foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad, tourist receipts, and most service receipts are sold at a rate determined by a committee of authorized foreign exchange dealers (mainly banks) and the Bangladesh Bank. Under the XPB scheme, exporters of nontraditional items are eligible to receive an exchange rate premium (the XPB), which is set to equal the difference between the WES rate (in taka per U.S. dollar) and the official rate. Each eligible item receives a coefficient of either 40 percent, 70 percent, or 100 percent of the XPB, depending on that item's domestic value added and the priority that the Government places on encouraging its export. At the end of 1986, 63 items were eligible for 100 percent of the XPB, covering domestic value added of 70 percent and above. A coef- ficient of 70 percent was given to 36 items, which covered items with a value added between 50 percent and 69 percent. Exports of garments and leather were subject to a schedule of coefficients. To encourage backward inte- gration, these items received 40 percent XPB if they were made from imported raw materials, and 100 percent XPB if domestic materials were used. Also, 70 percent XPB was paid both on exports of intermediate textile products (i.e., fabric) and on domestic sales of intermediate prod- ucts which were finished locally and then exported. All other exports receive 40 percent XPB, except raw ju te, loose tea, and wet blue leather. On December 31, 1986 the middle exchange rate in the secondary market was Tk 33.175 per US$1 and Tk 48.725 per £ stg. 1. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member countries of the Asian 96 Clearing Un ion .1 Forward facilities at authorized banks covering periods of up to six months are available in all approved foreign currencies for export proceeds and for import paymen ts. Forward exchange facilities for three months are available for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and foreign airlines. For settlement of transactions under the Asian Clearing Union, the Bangladesh Bank also purchases, both spot and forward, the Asian Monetary Un it (AMU);2 it also sells the AMU for spot delivery. Upon payment of an annual premium of 2.5 percent, the exchange risk on public or private foreign currency loans that will be fully or partly disbursed by June 30, 1988 through Development Finance Institutions and na- tionalized commercial banks may be given forward ex- change cover under the Exchange Rate Fluctuation Bur- den Absorption Scheme. The full amount of the exchange risk may be covered in respect of loans disbursed after July 1, 1983, but the scheme applies to only a specified proportion of loans fu l ly disbursed prior to that date. The scheme also permits lending institutions to convert into preferred shares or debentures a part of exchange losses on foreign currency loans outstanding on June 30, 1983 and on which there are overdue paymen ts. The scheme is administered by the Bangladesh Bank, but the exchange risk is borne by the Governmen t. Premiums received against the covers are credited to a special government account. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and ten domestic commercial banks (of which four are nationalized), together with two jo in t-ven ture banks and three specialized financial institutions, have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registration of exporters and importers and for issuance of the Import Policy Order. Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the Import Policy Order against letters of credit. Authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and a separate import license is not required. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state-trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangla- Members of the Asian Clearing Un ion are Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2The AMU is equ iva lent in value to the SDR and is used for recording the value of transac t ions passing through the Un ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution desh has commodity exchange agreements3 normally must be effected through nonconvertible U .S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements up to agreed value limits; settlement with these countries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements or beyond the value ceilings specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts through the Clearing Un ion .4 Settlements with other countries normally take place in sterling and other con- vertible currencies, and in few cases, through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which im- portation is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresident Taka Account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.5 Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers w i thout prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank in respect of Bangladesh nation- als/foreign nationals who once resided abroad and in respect of foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home- based members of the mission s taffs, international non- profit humanitarian organizations func t ion ing in Bangla- desh and their expatriate employees, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange 3Bulgaria, People's Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Dem- ocratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Poland, Romania, U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia. 4Exchange rates for transactions under the ACU are calculated and announced on the basis of daily IMF quotations of the exchange rates of the currencies of the ACU member coun tr ies in terms of SDR. 5The accounts of the Un i ted Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. BANGLADESH and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds ster- ling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, trav- eler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited, w i thout restriction, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local d isbursemen ts; (2) transfers to other Foreign Cur- rency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes up to the equivalent of US$400 a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for travel by air to Bhu tan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, up to an overall annual travel allocation of US$1,800 a person and a maximum of US$1,000 a trip for travel to other countries, and up to US$150 a year for overland travel to India. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals, foreign nationals, and foreign firms may also open interest-bearing Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Deposit Accounts, denominated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500, (US$25,000 for foreigners) w i th (1) remittances in convertible currencies, and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Accounts maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at Eurocurrency deposit rates. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his coun try of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the Wage Earners' Scheme, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Account maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the official rate, must be reported by banks monthly to the Bangladesh Bank and the accounts must be closed within six months or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH the taking up of permanent residence by the account holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or w i th foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports other than foodgrains, fertilizers, and items financed by project aid are licensed within the framework of an annual import policy (import budget). The Import Policy Order (IPO) for the fiscal year 1986/87 (July to June) is based on two lists, the Negative List and the Restricted List. The Negative List includes items in 321 out of 1,192 categories, for which importation is totally banned either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are locally produced. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inpu ts, certain textiles, factory rejects, goods of substandard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. The Restricted List includes items in 289 categories that may be imported only if certain conditions relating mainly to nature of end users and quality standards are me t. In addition, there are special restricted lists for the ju te mills, textile mills, and im- porters of G.P. sheet. Items not on these lists are freely importable through the Secondary Exchange Ma rke t, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate, which is readily obtainable. Imports at the official exchange rate are subject to allocation on the basis of foreign exchange availability. Cash allocations at the official exchange rate are granted for the importation of, inter alia, technology, certain spare parts and ma- chinery, and special materials and equipment for certain export-oriented sectors. With the exception of imports by government depart- men ts, letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) are required of all registered importers for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, registered commercial importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without the need for an import license. For imports under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme, an importer is required to have a valid import registration certificate either as a commercial importer or industrial consumer or under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Single country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For shipment of imports under cash and the Secondary Ex- change Market Scheme, the validity of LCAFs is as follows: (1) 11 months from the date of issuance/registra- tion of an LCAF for commercial items and industrial raw and packing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents 98 lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may, subsequent to the month of registration of the above documen ts, allow remittances w i th in a period of 12 mon ths for the importation of commercial items and industrial raw materials and packing materials and up to 18 mon ths for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require additional time to make remittances, then authorized dealers may allow such remittances only under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme, a provision exists for the importation of machinery and equ ipment against letters of credit opened on a deferred payment basis for up to 360 days. Raw materials may be imported under letters of credit on a deferred payment basis up to 90 days. Firms dealing in recognized export-oriented ready- made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred payment basis up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Opening of letters of credit for industrial imports and specified essential commercial imports in the private sector is subject to margin requirements ranging from 5 percent to 25 percent; for nonessential commercial im- ports, the m in imum margin requirements range from 25 percent to 75 percent. The margin deposits for imports under sight letters of credit through the Secondary Ex- change Market is 100 percent; interest is paid on these deposits. There is no m in imum margin requirement for opening of import letters of credit for raw and packaging materials against export letters of credit received by export-oriented ready-made garment un i ts. For public sector importers, the m in imum margin requirement for opening letters of credit is 5 percent. Imports of books and periodicals up to specified limits are permissible on a consignment basis. Public sector importers, however, may import on a cash-against-documents basis. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is subject to the availability of funds and governed by an entitlement sys tem, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Industries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply, however, to raw materials and packing materials that are imported under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme, although these imports are subject to quantitative restrictions if they appear on the Restricted List. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machin- ery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis. Exporters with export earnings of Tk 100 million or more during the preceding year are entitled to a maximum business travel allowance of US$25,000 a year. Exporters with export earnings of Tk 50 million to Tk 100 million in the preceding year are entitled to the allowance equivalent to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum of US$18,000. Those with export earnings of Tk 2.5 million to Tk 50 million are also entitled to the allowance equivalent to 1 percent of the value of their exports, subject to a minimum of US$4,500 and a maximum of US$11,000; exporters with a performance of less than Tk 2.5 million are allowed up to US$4,500. New exporters are allowed US$90 per day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000. All business travel allowance must be pur- chased in the Secondary Exchange Market. For medical treatment the amount granted is the actual requirement, which must be purchased in the Secondary Exchange Market, subject to the consent of the Bangladesh Bank. A Bangladesh national proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of net salaries, subject to a maximum o ff stg. 200 a month (net of tax) for nationals of countries other than India, and up to Tk 1,500 for Indian nationals, if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their exit; if no declaration has been made, up to US$150 may be reconverted. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. A Bangladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. BANGLADESH Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four mon ths of shipment. Exports of ju te and ju te goods must be registered with the Bangladesh Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladeshi nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts or in Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the Bangladesh Bank, all Bangladeshi na- tionals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh, within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Bangladesh is, how- ever, exempt from this requirement. The import of Ban- gladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. For- eign currency notes may be brought in without limit by any person, provided that the total amount brought in is declared upon arrival. No declaration is required for import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$1,000 by nonresidents or US$750 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident- owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require ap- proval. Movable and immovable assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshi nationals. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Ban- gladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin requires approval. Borrowing by non-resident-owned or non-resident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods in- tended for export from Bangladesh to companies con- trolled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Autho- rized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign private inves tment is governed by the Foreign Private Inves tment (Promotion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collabo- ration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The Act provides, inter alia, for protection and equitable treatment of foreign private inves tmen t, indem- nification, protection against expropriation and national- ization, and guarantee for repatriation of inves tmen t. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is lim- ited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new inves tmen t, foreign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private investment, but any investments above Tk 100 million need special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Inves tment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes, except that 10 percent of the annual remittable profits must be held in Bangladesh by sterling tea companies until the total amount held is equal to 200 percent of paid-up capital. Gold The import and export of silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not nor- mally granted. Exports of gold jewelry are allowed only in jewelry form under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate for the taka was adjusted on four occasions during the year, from Tk 31.00 = US$1 at the end of 1985 to Tk 30.80 - US$1 at the end of 1986. January 5. Authorized dealers were allowed to sell foreign exchange forward to reduce the exchange risk faced by exporters who import under the back-to-back 100 letters of credit arrangement. Dealers were allowed to sell forward up to 75 percent of the value of exports already effected under the export letters of credit in order to cover fu tu re payments of import bills. The maximum length of cover was set at 6 mon ths or 15 days following the due date of payment of the import bill, whichever is sooner. February 27. Authorized banks with surplus WES funds were permitted to sell them to the Bangladesh Bank at the exchange rate ruling on the date of sale instead of the exchange rate ruling on the date of their own purchasing of such funds. June 15. Earnings from the export of biscuits and "Soil Saver (Anti-Wash)" were assigned an XPB entitlement rate of 100 percent. July 28. Foreign exchange earnings for journalistic work were made eligible for the WES rate, except for the earnings of journalists who are paid by foreign organi- zations on a regular monthly basis. October 23. The rate of XPB entitlement was fixed at 100 percent for porcelain and ceramic products and 70 percent for jamdani and tangail saris. Prescription of Currency April 3. The TCB and Andre & Cie S.A., Switzerland, signed the Third Year Protocol of the Special Trading Arrangement dated September 21, 1981. The Protocol will remain valid up to April 2, 1987. The agreement covers the exchange on a self-balancing basis of US$18 million worth of goods. Bangladesh will ship mainly ju te goods and ju te twine and will import mainly raw cotton, milk, and G.P. sheet. April 20. The TCB and M/S AB SUKAB, of Stockholm, Sweden, concluded the Third Annual Trade Promotion Agreement for a period of one year, in the amount of US$18 million. April 23. The TCB and National Trading Limited, Nepal, signed a Special Trading Arrangement valid for the following two years. August 23. The TCB and Eldess IXL L td ., Australia, signed a Special Trading Arrangement valid for one year, for an amount of US$15 million. Nonresident Accounts June 23. Foreign nationals and foreign firms were allowed to maintain time deposits in foreign currencies with banks in Bangladesh. The conditions applicable to other Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts apply, except that the m in imum deposit for foreign na- tionals is US$25,000 or its equivalent in pounds sterling. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Industrial firms were allowed to open letters of credit on a deferred payments basis up to 90 days for the import of raw materials under the Secondary Exchange Market Scheme (SEM). February 16. The margin requirement for opening import letters of credit was fixed at 50 percent for palm oil, irrespective of the source of financing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 19. Mills that produce cotton yarn of between 40 and 60 count were required to meet 10 percent of their overall import requirement for raw cotton through pur- chases of domestic cotton. April 30. Authorized dealers were allowed to issue guarantees toward the repayment of foreign suppliers' credits. These credits must first be approved by the Hard Terms Loans Committee. May 6. The requirement of using Bangladesh flag vessels as per provisions of the Bangladesh Flag Vessels (pro- tection) ordinance was waived for imports under Asian Development Bank assistance. May 19. Authorized dealers were required to pay interest on the 100 percent advance foreign exchange deposits obtained for imports on a deferred paymen ts basis under the SEM. The importers must be paid the taka equivalent (transacted at the SEM rate) of the interest earned on such funds deposited in the Foreign Currency Clearing Account with the Bangladesh Bank, less 0.5 percent for handling charges. July 1. The 1986/87 Import Policy Order (IPO) came into effect. The new IPO shortened the Negative and Restricted Lists, eliminating restrictions on about 140 items. Commercial imports of G.P. sheet, which is used to make corrugated iron, were allowed. The ban was also lifted on the import of widely used sizes of Super Ena- melled Copper Wire which is an input to many locally manufactured electric goods, from motors and trans- formers to fans. Diesel engines, trucks, buses, and books were made freely importable. The number of items on the special negative and restricted lists for spares and accessories of the jute and textile mills was reduced from 791 to 254. Effective July 1, the ju te mills will have only 199 items on their negative list and only 39 items on their restricted list, while the textile mills will have no imports banned and only 16 items on their restricted list. Also, export-oriented firms operating under the bonded ware- house system no longer needed to obtain import permits, and only letters of credit authorization forms for clearance of raw and packing materials imported against back-to- back letters of credit were required. BANGLADESH July 16. Imports of fabric were limited for each com- mercial importer to one million yards or Tk 20 million, whichever is greater. October 29. Firms were allowed to open letters of credit for imports under the SEM, even if they had not utilized their barter allocation under the 1986/87 IPO. Payments for Invisibles October 18. The annual foreign exchange allowance for personal travel by air to Bhu tan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka was increased from US$200 to US$400 per person. (The annual quota of US$150 for visits to India by land was not changed.) The annual allowance for personal visits to other countries was also maintained, at no more than US$1,000 per voyage and US$1,800 per year. The amounts for minors (under 12 years of age) were one half the above ceilings. All travel transactions will be conducted at the SEM rate. Proceeds from Invisibles January 5. Earnings of foreign export agents and inspection agents were transferred to the Secondary Exchange Market. Authorized dealers will convert all such earnings repatriated through banking channels at the Wage Earners' Scheme rate. Capital May 29. Nonresidents were allowed to take out of Bangladesh up to US$150 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies if no declaration was made at the time of arrival. Larger amounts may be repatriated if the foreign exchange brought into the country has been declared at the time of arrival. Gold March 27. The export of gold jewelry was allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. Exporters must reg- ister with the Export Promotion Bureau in addition to their normal registration with the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 - US$1. On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 percent, buying and 1.8125 percent, selling. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.4435 and BDS$1.4725, re- spectively, per Can$ l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.0258 and BDS$1.0464, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$2.9324 and BDS$2.9913, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade paymen ts up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is admin- istered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency ,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARI- COM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Cur- rency Accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these ac- counts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts under the conditions of ap- proval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with paymen ts by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to au- thorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) em- powers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Ac- counts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM countries re- quire individual licenses. Import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Bar- badian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quan- titative restriction. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while 'The CAR ICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution some others are subject to temporary restriction (partic- ularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foods tu f fs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "Neg- ative List" for certain garments, the importation of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a m in imum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrange- ments have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to authorized dealers; paymen ts for imports of crude oil and derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control ap- proval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, paymen ts for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry paymen ts. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel within or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel w i th in the CARICOM area, and BDS$6,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax re funds, official paymen ts, and life insurance prem iums. Applications for additional amoun ts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Outward remittances of funds to overseas insurers or other pension fund administrators are subject to a tax of 6 percent. Residents traveling to any destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. BARBADOS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any coun try; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported w i thout license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Economic Commun i ty. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Residents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Trans- fers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents with exchange control approval, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, pro- vided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct inves tment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the inves tmen t, and the registration of the original inves tment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original inves tment 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign inves tmen t, as follows: for the last five years at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 percent. Amoun ts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized deal- ers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are per- mitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Commerce; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permis- sion is required to do so. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 20. The following items were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses: roofing coatings, pu t ty, concrete, curing compounds, water proofers, textured wall coatings, masonry-filler, on poly-filler, formwork and molding treatment, tile adhesives and bonding agents, mortars, concrete, motor additives, and admixtures. March 20. The following items were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses: shandy, lemonade, flavored spa waters, flavored aerated waters, and other nonalcoholic beverages. March 24. Fruits otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or spirits, were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. July 14. Roasted groundnuts (peanuts) were added to the list of items requiring import licenses. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary associ- ation within which the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxembourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Bel- gium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows: Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Specified Intervention Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Danish kroner 564.1000 539.3000 100 deutsche mark 2,089.0000 1,997.2000 100 French francs 641.5500 613.3500 1 Irish pound 57.6420 55.1060 100 Italian lire 3.1000 2.7490 100 Netherlands guilders 1,854.0500 1,772.4500 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctua- tions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente, or regulated) market and the free market. Most current transactions are settled in the official market; and only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. Authorized banks may sell on the official market currencies acquired on the free market. Most convertible currencies are dealt in the official market.1 However, although Zairian currency (the zaire) Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne th- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The ECU (European Currency Un i t) is treated on an equal footing with the other currencies traded in the official market. The Australian dollar and the South African rand are not officially quoted. is officially quoted, the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (IBLC) does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the ex- change of the zaire for convertible Belgian or Luxembourg francs or other convertible currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire convertible cur- rencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery (on the delivery date itself if the maturity of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not used to cover au- thorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be surrendered to the Treasury. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 40.30 and BF 40.52, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including domestic and foreign bank notes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1986 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 40.82 buy ing and BF 40.88 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transaction. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single ex- change control territory in relation to other countries. Banks in Luxembourg may not accept deposits in Lux- embourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F 1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the IBLC. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commission has authority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy, but 2This restriction was abolished on January 1, 1987. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Bank Commission, and in Luxembourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary Institute. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire, although the BLEU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreement), and the convertible area (all other countries).3 All inward and outward transactions are classified into four groups, which may be summarized as follows. List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial 3Effec t ive January 1, 1987, the bilateral paymen ts regime w i th Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire was abolished; as a resu l t, the d is t inc t ion between bilateral and convertible country grouping has disappeared. expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commercial expenses, including insurance, administrative expenses of sales agencies, and sharing in administrative expenses of central offices by branches and affiliates. List B covers settlements of travel agencies, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments. It also includes family support payments by immigrant workers of foreign nationality. List C covers (1) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits; and (2) repatriation of certain foreign long-term invest- ments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality. List D covers gifts, life insurance paymen ts, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of long-term inves tmen ts, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of mer- chandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement de- scribed above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET A ,B C Convertible Convertible Convertible Any Outward Payments D A ,B ,C ,D Convertible Bilateral Any Official Official or Free Free NONRES IDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* A,B C D A ,B C D Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Any Official Official or Free ) Free J Free Bilateral Convertible Official Bilateral Bilateral Convertible Other Any Official or Free — — the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essen- tially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, imports and exports of diamonds, including related costs, may only be paid for in foreign currencies through the free market, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs by means of nonresident Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresidents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.4 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents that either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Ac- counts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authorization by the IBLC. A m in imum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain periods for mail-credit advances in Con- vertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.5 They may be used freely for settlements that either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic bank notes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign bank notes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations es- tablished in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accoun ts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of these organizations and representations may maintain Special Convertible Accounts, which may be credited with their remunera t ion in Belgian francs, provided they agree in writing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover their current expenses in the BLEU. 5Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic repre- sentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified international organ- izations situated in the BLEU, ind iv idua ls residing in Bu rund i, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 3. Bilateral Accounts.6 These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign cur- rencies in the official market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account must be credited or debited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czech- oslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam ;7 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.8 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and food- s tuffs, coal and petroleum products, diamonds, and weap- ons. All other commodities are free of license; the sole requirement is a form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration —model A), which must be presented to an authorized bank.9 No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in value. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of m in imum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. An authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC 6E f fec t ive January 1, 1987, the accounts were abolished. 7Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped from these countries. ,8Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EC countries. 9Effec t ive January 1, 1987, this requirement was abolished. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG is required for payments exceeding BF 25 million and for payments made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance.10 However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary collec- tion basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit trans- actions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such payment is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Lux- embourg francs to a Convertible Account. For payments exceeding BF 25 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes). Payments to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convertible account in Zaire.11 Foreign and domestic bank notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.12 All other exports are free of license; only a form (notice of export —model B) completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export must be presented to an authorized bank.13 Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to verify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an author- 10Effective January 1, 1987, this requirement was abolished. HEffective January 1, 1987, this requirement was abolished. 12Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. 13Effective January 1, 1987, this requirement was abolished. 108 ized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official exchange market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign bank notes. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, inc lud ing gifts, family mainte- nance paymen ts, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 mon ths prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial set- tlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by interna- tional organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denomi- nated in Belgian francs are not normally permitted. The Luxembourg Monetary Institute (LMI) regulates the issue of franc-denominated bonds on the Luxembourg capital market: for public bond issues, an official calendar is established and priority is given to domestic public sector borrowing and to enterprises utilizing the funds for domestic investment; for private bond issues, no official calendar exists, but the LMI monitors the overall volume and frequency of issues. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward paymen ts for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires.14 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of 14Effective January 1, 1987, the bilateral paymen ts regime with Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire was abolished. 1 Irish pound BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; settlements in respect of gold transactions in coins or bars with convertible area countries may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value- added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Imports of gold for industrial, artistic, or medical use may be paid through the official market. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 7. The intervention limits of the Belgian and Luxembourg francs within the EMS were redefined as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 564.1000 539.3000 2,089.0000 1,997.2000 641.5500 613.3500 62.6550 59.8975 3.1000 2.7490 1,854.0500 1,772.4500 August 4. The intervention limits of the Belgian and Luxembourg francs within the EMS were redefined with respect to the Irish pound: Specified Intervention Rates per: Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 57.6420 55.1060 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank and the com- mercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 31,1986 the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, and a number of currencies of member countries of the CARicoM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to foreign currency. Belize acccepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the administration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. Nonresident Accounts Permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is dele- gated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, [The CARICOM countries are Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and the currencies of the member countries of the CARICOM. 110 standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally admin- istered. There are no quota limits nor other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most im- ports are subject to a stamp du ty of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign ex- change: (1) nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$ 1,500 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$200 a day a person, up to BZ$6,000 a year; (3) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (4) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year (apart from a once-only allowance of BZ$ 1,000 for educational expenses and maintenance); and (5) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and cur- rency are subject to limits as follows: each traveler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equiv- alent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amoun ts beyond these limits require approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when jus t if ied. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most of the export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless determined otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export du ty of 5 percent. Re-exports and trans- shipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administra- tion fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars 3Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export du ty is 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resident travelers are re- quired to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require approval of the Central Bank but control is liberally administered. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific au- thorization from the Central Bank. Gold may neither be imported nor exported without the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 25. The customs administration fee on entrepot trade was raised from 3 percent to 4 percent. November 10. The customs administration fee on en- trepot trade was reduced from 4 percent to 3 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 25. The customs administration fee on entrepot trade was raised from 3 percent to 4 percent. November 10. The customs administration fee on en- trepot trade was reduced from 4 percent to 3 percent. in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a com- mission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union .2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Ben in's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Com- oros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries but, for purposes of certain controls relating to capital flows, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Currency and Credit in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance and Economy, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import li- censes are issued by the Directorate of External Com- merce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I 'A f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 112 of a decree issued by the National Executive Council (Council of Ministers). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- mally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China and specified socialist coun- tries, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold Foreign Accounts in Francs with authorized banks and intermediary institutions. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Certain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods from any country, whether made with or without transfer of exchange, are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce. Goods may be imported into Benin according to one of the following two regimes: (1) unrestricted goods, which may be freely imported under a global import authori- zation issued to individuals or legal entities, or (2) goods subject to quota. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates 3There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 30,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 1,500,000 a trip. The transfer of one half of the net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted, subject to authorization by the Directorate of Money and Credit upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the cus- toms the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, subject to ad jus tment for amoun ts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t; a max imum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued BENIN at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application issued by the Directorate of External Com- merce. The due date of payment for exports may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination; the foreign exchange thus received must be sold to an authorized bank within 30 days of payment due date, and its proceeds must be repatriated to Benin by the latter by transfer via the BCEAO. Irrespective of currency of paymen t, prior authorization is required for the retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movemen ts between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward inves tment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior au- thorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Governmen t, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or inves tment with foreign private 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Econ- omy; at least 75 percent of such inves tmen ts must be financed from foreign borrowing.4 Foreign direct invest- ments in Benin5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postpone- ment of the operations, within a period of two months. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of inves tment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liq- uidation of inves tmen ts, whether these are Beninese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Ben in, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Econ- omy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance and Economy) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance and Economy if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The Investment Code (Law No. 82-005 of May 20, 1982) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus try, mining, Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ben in. Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such inves tmen ts are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for public and mixed enterprises operating at the national and provincial levels and provides, during a period of up to five years, for exemption from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item and from certain other taxation. Plan B is intended for domestic and foreign private enterprises contributing to the economic and social development of Benin, and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain tax privileges for a maximum exemption period of five years. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises wishing to conclude incorporation agreements with Benin, and is granted for a period of up to ten years. In addition to the benef i ts of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain advantages. For Plans A, B, and C, up to two years for installation time may be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for small and medium-sized domestic enterprises and cooperatives for up to five years. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 28-254 of July 13, 1983. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the National Economic Council (Council of Ministers), acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 Administration of Control February 26. Law No. 86-005 pertaining to disputes with regard to violations of the exchange control regula- tions was passed by the Revolutionary National Assembly. December 29. Decree No. 86-552, setting out the structure and powers of the Commission appointed to handle foreign exchange disputes, was adopted. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974, it has been pegged to the Indian rupee, which also circulates in Bhu tan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined daily on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those cur- rencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exchange rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U .S. dollar were Nu 13.09 and Nu 13.15 per US$1, respectively. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. Beginning from July 26, 1985, substantial powers are delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of implementation of the surrender requirements for proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has discretionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties exist on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes or subsidies. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin are prohibited. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transac- tions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso.1 The official buy ing rate is determined at an auction held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing rate was $b 1,920,000 = US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by a Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cam- bio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Prior to each auction the committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price, below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. The sale of foreign exchange to the public is free of all taxes and commissions. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds from the export of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses^ companies, and individuals can buy and sell foreign exchange freely. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess international reserves at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including the public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel exchange market, in which the exchange rate on December 31, 1986 was $b 1,945,000 = US$1 (buying). Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Bolivia is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service paymen ts. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the ^n January 1, 1987 a new currency, the Boliviano (Bs), defined as Bs. 1 - $b 1,000,000 was in t roduced. 116 country concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the exception of sugar (temporarily subject to licensing requirements) and those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Since August 1986, imports have been subject to a uniform tariff of 20 percent. Importers are also required to pay an inspection charge of 1.4 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Residents of Bolivian or foreign na- tionality must present a certificate of tax settlement (certificado de solvencia tributarid) when leaving the country. The fee for the certificate is $b 500 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 250 for overland travel to such countries, $b 1,000 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 1,500 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Outward remittances of profit are governed by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the Mining Bank exports the production of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies are required to surrender during the first hour of the business day following the transaction, and at the buying rate established by the Central Bank, all their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11, 1983, financial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. Foreign inves tmen ts in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree Law No. 18751) of December 14, 1981. The law is administered by the National In- ves tment Institute. Inves tmen ts in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and Mining Code. Certain foreign inves tmen ts are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining BOLIVIA Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market, subject to conditions that it establishes jo in t ly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requirements of gold from the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments August 15. A new uniform tariff rate of 20 percent was introduced. Imports under international agreements were exempted from the tariff, and imports of 750 items used in the hydrocarbons sector were subject to a tariff of 1 percent; virtually all other exemptions were withdrawn. September 1. A system of inspection by an international company of import and export invoices was introduced. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. A system of inspection by an international company of import and export invoices was introduced. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of a weight of 65 percent for the South African rand and of 35 percent for the SDR. On December 31, 1986 the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was P 1.8376 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 2.2477 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. Botswana does not maintain any bilateral payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including fire- arms, ammun i t ion, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana, Malawi, and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. 'Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, and Zimbabwe dollars. 118 For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds of the export of goods is six months. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits is delegated to commercial banks. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of P 5,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 2,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel is P 250 a day, up to a maximum of P 10,000 a calendar year. The annual limit on outward remittances by a temporary resident on contract is P 10,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater; for a self-employed temporary resident, the limit is P 10,000. Separately, travelers may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in an amount of P 200 and P 300, respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance by residents of foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in proven cases of commercial need for such a facility. Authorized dealers may approve payment of dividends to nonresidents up to P 30,000 per annum per company. Capital Applications to make investments abroad are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Bot- swana. Foreign inward investment in new or existing businesses is generally encouraged. The policy has been altered whereby any local borrowing in excess of P 100,000 by nonresident-controlled companies must be matched by nonresident funds in the company on a 1:1 ratio; with effect from October 13, 1986 the ratio was changed to a 3:1 debt-to-equity ratio. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. This ratio is variable, but must be at least 3:1. Any external borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period (the previous requirement was a two-year grace period). Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 10,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigration allow- ance of up to P 100,000. The balance of assets is normally permitted to be remitted in equal installments over three years from the date of departure. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 20. The pula was revalued by 1 percent against the currency basket used for determining its exchange rate, and the weight of the South African rand in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA basket was reduced from 75 percent to 65 percent with a corresponding increase in the weight of the SDR. In February 1986 the pula was revalued against the basket by 1 percent on three occasions. During May- June 1986 the pula was depreciated against the basket by 1 percent on eight occasions. In September 1986 the pula was revalued against the basket by 1 percent on two occasions. February 17. Applications in respect of forward pur- chases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports exceeding six months were required to be referred to the Bank of Botswana. February 17. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods was increased to six mon ths in 1986. Payments for Invisibles March 10. The annual limit on dividend remittances to one company was increased from P 25,000 to P 30,000. Capital October 13. The minimum grace period on external borrowing was reduced from two years to three months. The debt-to-equity ratio for local borrowing by non- resident-controlled companies exceeding P 100,000 was changed to 3:1. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzado (Cz$). Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the cruzado is adjusted on a daily basis in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank of Brazil and by banks and tourist agencies au- thorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual market." Un iform i ty between the rates quoted by the Central Bank and the effective rates of the Central Bank is ensured by the Central Bank 's practice of standing ready to purchase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transactions. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank to the public were Cz$14.865 and Cz$14.939, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U .S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates of up to 3/16 of 1 percent on either side of the rates set by the Central Bank. A d ifferent effective rate arises, on the selling side, from the application of a financial transactions tax (im- posto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operaqoes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services (with specified exemptions) and, on the buying side, from the contribution quota on coffee exports (see below). Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. The limits are fixed in relation to the registered capital of each bank: a bank having registered capital of up to Cz$500,000 may maintain a bought or sold position of up to US$750,000; over and above that financial base, a bank is allowed a bought position of US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 million. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each authorized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amoun ts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position, and limited to 100 percent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers during the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their manual market position (bank notes and traveler's checks). The banks are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, subject to certain conditions; such transactions may be carried out 120 either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within 2 working days for spot trans- actions or not later than 180 days for forward transactions. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In ac- cordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange controls, regulations affecting foreign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. Limits on interna- tional borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Control of Public Enterprises (SEST) in the Planning Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX ), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil S.A. (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions w i th in Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exportaqdo or declaraqoes de ex- portaqdo and guias de importaqdo}. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission, estab- lished within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the Secretariat for Control of Public Enterprises. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral paymen ts agree- ment countries1 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Inte- gration Association (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no paymen ts agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. 'Bilateral payments agreements are maintained w i th Bulgaria, the German Democratic Repub l ic, and Poland. Bilateral accounts are also ma in ta ined with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third coun t ry currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on the international capital ma rke t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign Exchange Accounts Beginning October 30, 1986, exporters, importers, and national companies with foreign capital participation are authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank. Accounts opened by exporters yield LIBO rate; withdrawals can be made once a month with 15 days' prior notice. Importers of goods financed abroad are allowed to open accounts within five days of issuance of the import certificate for the amount of foreign financing involved in the import operation. These deposits are remunerated at LIBO rate or the borrowing cost, whichever is lower; only withdrawals for repayment of the foreign obligation are allowed. Companies whose foreign capital participation is registered at the Central Bank are authorized to open foreign exchange accounts while awaiting a decision to invest in Brazil. These accounts can be credited with funds from new foreign direct investment or with profit remittances; deposits are remunerated at LIBO rate; withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice. Imports and Import Payments CACEX has suspended the issuance of import licenses for a substantial number of imports for reasons of security, health, or morals; issuance of licenses is also suspended for a number of items for reasons of industrial policy. The importation of a small number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Governmen t, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documenta- tion, including samples w i thout commercial value and certain educational materials, and (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued automatically if it conforms to a previously submitted and binding annual import plan. Import certificates are issued on an f .o .b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depending on the commodity. For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half- yearly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance cer- tificates for certain groups of commodities. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For most imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,2 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, Hinder ins truc t ions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and pub l ic enterprises are required to subm i t, for approval by the Pres iden t, an annual inve s tment program incorporating their expected import requ i remen ts. BRAZIL certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exh ib i t ions, certain types of used capital goods, and goods to be brought in with foreign financing on a deferred payment basis. For the last-mentioned category, it is a prior condition for the granting of import certificates for most groups of commodities that importers arrange external financing with specified m in imum ma- turities for the type of commodity and the amount of financing involved .3 CACEX grants exceptions from the specified financing terms for imports for projects aimed at import substitution or export production, imports with payment terms equivalent to those provided by foreign governments and bilateral or multilateral agencies, and imports by small or medium-sized firms. All importers must be registered w i th CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX an annual binding import program as a basis for requesting import licenses. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Devel- opment Council and w i thout prejudice to commitments under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where: (1) imports are for speculative stock building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the national economy for reasons other than those related to the balance of paymen ts; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from countries that impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota, which was set at US$500 million for 1986. The transfer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods originally imported into the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$600 free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment w i thout authorization from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and the related scheme of paymen ts issued by the Department of Foreign Capital Supervision and Registration (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Prior to shipment of the goods, total paymen ts to suppliers for the nonfi- nanced amount may not exceed 10 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the contract is in tended to settle draf ts, at sight or on maturity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place two working days in advance of the maturity date. Exchange contracts for 3Certain specified imports, inc lud ing direct imports by pub l ic adminis- trative bodies, are exempt from this requ i remen t. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days in advance of the maturity date of the letters of credit. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals); application of such duties may also be affected by the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educational and health purposes. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange without the prior approval of the Central Bank in respect of personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person 12 years of age or older; for trips to or initial stopover in Central or South America, the amount is US$500. In both cases, the total amount can be provided in cash, traveler's checks, or in the form of payment orders. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the age of 2 and 12 years; no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special allowance of US$20,000 a year is available for the travel and representation expenses abroad of firms whose annual exports total at least US$200,000. Appli- cations for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Inves tment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including re inves tmen ts, and the con- tracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Indus- trial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization paymen ts 122 are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration; the remittances are subject to withholding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent or other rate determined under agreement between Brazil and other countries for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent, of net receipts from the sale or manufacture of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial transactions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate (guia de exportagdo or declaragoes de exporta^do) issued by CACEX to ensure compliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified com- modities, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic consumption, are prohib- ited or suspended, and exports of certain other commod- ities are conditional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which mini- mum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sales contract is based on a price that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed periodically by the IBC for the various types of coffee, although discounts are also authorized. During 1986 the IBC continued to make periodic announcements of m in imum registration prices for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground- roasted, and decaffeinated coffee, although not necessar- ily changing them. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports are sold at freely negotiated rates within the limits of the official market. Exporters of gems and other precious stones are allowed to obtain gold from the Central Bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in exchange for their export receipts. Foreign exchange contracts covering such transactions may be closed either prior to the shipment of goods or within ten working days after shipment. The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. A number of export incentives are in operation, prin- cipally for manufac tured commodities. Certain exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state value-added taxes according to the terms of contracts signed prior to July 1982 under the Special Program of Tax Benefits for Exporters (BEFIEX). Firms signing new BEFIEX contracts are not eligible for the credits. However, for a number of exports to the United States (primarily textiles, leatherware, footwear, and certain steel products), export taxes of 0.6-27.4 percent are levied. For exports of ladies' footwear to all destinations, a tax of 2.2 percent is levied. In 1986 export taxes at d ifferent rates were levied on a number of other products, irrespective of destination. Various financing programs for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and the commercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Brazilian enterprises rendering services to tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agen- cies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings from tourism, provided that the service is paid for in foreign exchange and that the tourist enterprise converts the exchange into cruzados at the official rate.4 Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad, when the trans- action is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public and semipublic sector (i.e., direct organs of the Government, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). In addition, prior ap- proval by the Central Bank is required for borrowing by Regulations to implement the relevant Decree-Law (No. 1587 of December 20, 1977) have not yet been introduced. BRAZIL the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subse- quent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio inves tmen t. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be regis- tered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Brazilian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whe ther contracted by the manufac turer himself or by a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make port- folio investments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities indirectly by acquiring shares in a Brazilian "investment company" quoted on Brazilian stock ex- changes. Such capital is subject to registration with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three mon ths. The m in imum participation in portfolio inves tment companies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio inves tmen ts are exempted from the capital gains tax. Portfolio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund- Foreign Capital." The m in imum participation in this fund is US$5,000,000, and the money must stay in the country at least three months. Funds and other collective invest- ment entities established abroad may maintain, in Brazil, portfolio of bonds and other securities, once its constitution and administration be previously approved by the Central Bank and the securities and exchange commission. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign bor- rowing in the light of the price of the proposed import. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Re inves tmen ts are defined as profits of companies estab- lished in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been rem i t ted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their re inves tmen t. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on distributions of profits and dividends to nonresidents in excess of 12 percent of registered capital over a three-year period; the tax is applied whether or not the profits are remitted abroad, but reinvested earnings are exempt. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private, commercial, inve s tmen t, and development banks and the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of financing working capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assumes responsi- bility for the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at ma tur i ty. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not under take to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m in imum term of seven years, but no maximum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzados, and it is released as follows: one third after 60 days from the deposit date, another one third after 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 100 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzados and is released as follows: 20 percent after 150 days from the deposit date, an additional fraction of 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regulations, on June 23, 1977 the Central Bank authorized voluntary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfinancial institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign 124 loans; these deposits may be released only on the maturity dates for payment of principal, interest, and commissions. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on September 12, 1984, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) vo lun tary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonfinancial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indef in i te period, except for (a) funds required for interest and amortization payments on the deposited loan fund s, (b) transformation of such loans into direct inves tmen t, or (c) in certain special cases, upon the prior approval of the Central Bank; and (2) 80 percent of the balance of vo lun tary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of financial loans (under Resolution No. 63), which could be released until December 31, 1984, were frozen for an indefinite period —the balance of 20 percent as well as similar deposits made after this date could be w i thdrawn w i th in an initial period of 60 days, and subsequen t ly w i th in 180 days from deposit dates; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, prior notice of 15 days is required. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities conform w i th m in imum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing comm i tmen ts on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1986 the Central Bank 's m in imum acceptable maturity was set at seven years. However, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the m in imum specified ma tu r i ty, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final ma tur i ty of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt rescheduling agreements, a similar mechanism applies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected principal repayments originally falling due during 1983-86. The resources de- posited in the Central Bank, originating from the install- men ts of the principal due in 1986, may not be re-lent to national borrowers, but only be transformed into equity inves tmen t. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider ap- plications on their merits. Approved exchange transac- tions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Firms authorized by the Government may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in Brazil under Decree No. 1,038 of October 21, 1969. Gold mining is conducted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under Law No. 4425 of October 8,1964. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 percent, plus Finsocial (0.5 percent) and PIS/ PASEP (0.75 percent) fees, due on each transaction, unless the operation takes place in the financial market when the said fees are due on the profits of the firm. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at international prices. (Law 4595 of December 31,1964.) Purchases of gold are made at current domestic prices; the international price is considered as a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by the Central Bank (before the issuance of the export tax by CACEX ). Exports of gold are subject to authorization by the Central Bank, which is always the alternative buye r. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 28. The cruzeiro (Cr) was replaced by a new monetary un i t, the cruzado (Cz), which consists of 100 "centavos," and is equivalent to 1,000 cruzeiros. March 3. The policy of adjusting the exchange rate of the national currency on a daily basis in terms of its intervention currency (the U .S. dollar) was suspended. October 15. The exchange rates for the cruzado were fixed at Cz$14.02 per US$1 (buying) and Cz$14.09 per US$1 (selling). November 24. The policy of adjusting the exchange rate of the national currency on a daily basis in terms of its intervention currency (the U.S. dollar) was reinstated. Foreign Exchange Accounts October 30. Exporters, importers, and national com- panies with foreign capital participation were authorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U .S. dollars at the Central Bank. Accounts opened by exporters yield LIBO rate; withdrawals can be made once a month with 15 days' prior notice. Importers of goods financed abroad were allowed to open accounts within five days of issuance of the import certificate for the amount of foreign financing involved in the import operation. These deposits are remunerated at LIBO rate or the borrowing cost, which- ever is lower; only withdrawals for repayment of the foreign obligation were allowed. Companies whose foreign capital participation is registered at the Central Bank were authorized to open foreign exchange accounts while awaiting a decision to invest in Brazil. These accounts can be credited with new foreign direct inves tment or profit remittances; deposits are remunerated at LIBO rate; withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice. November 28. The Monetary Council approved the rules and regulations for the constitution, func t ion ing, and administration of "Investment Fund-Foreign Capi- tal" and "Portfolio of Securities," which had come into existence on account of the foreign entities mentioned in Article 2 of Decree-Law No. 2,285 of July 23, 1986. Imports and Import Payments January 13. Import tariffs on selected aircraft were reduced from 50 percent to 20 percent. BRAZIL January 30. The IOF on the purchase of foreign exchange for the importation of rice, beans, corn, meat, milk, and butter was temporarily suspended. March 14. Tariff exemption was granted on the impor- tation of skin hides of goats and sheep. April 4. The IOF on the importation of rayon textiles by national textile enterprises was suspended on all shipments entering customs before June 30, 1986. April 10. The limit on imports (f .o .b .) to be effected through the Manaus free zone was set at US$500 million for 1986. Excluded from this limit were the following imports: (1) inputs into industrial exports; (2) for each enterprise located in the free zone of Manaus, up to 30 percent of the net balance between the repatriation of foreign exchange and expenditure on imports used in their production. April 16. Tax exemptions on operations located in the Manaus free zone were extended for an additional ten years. May 15. The IOF on the importation of chloroetilen was abolished for imports effected before December 31, 1986. May 20. Tariff exemption was granted from July 1, 1986 to June 30, 1987 on the importation of selected chemical products used in the production of fertilizers. May 22. Tariff reduction was granted during 1986 on the importation of: (1) medical equipment originating in Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay; (2) oil products and selected chemical products originating in Argentina and Mexico; (3) selected chemical products from Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Para- guay, and U ruguay; (4) chemical dyes and pigments from Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay; and (5) selected pharmaceutical imports from Argentina, Bo- livia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay. June 16. Tariff reductions were granted on the impor- tation of office equipment from Argentina, Bolivia, Ec- uador, Mexico, and Paraguay, retroactive to March 1, 1986. June 17. Tariff reductions were granted on certain chemical imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Paraguay, retroactive to January 1, 1986. June 19. Tariffs on the importation of selected chemical products used in the production of pesticides and phar- maceuticals were reduced to 5 percent, provided imports take place before December 31, 1986. June 23. The IOF on the importation of meat, milk, bu t ter, corn, rice, soybean oil, and soybean meal was suspended on all shipments disembarking before Decem- ber 31, 1986. June 26. The IOF on the importation of selected merchandise originating in Bolivia, Ecuador, and Para- guay was abolished following the implementation of bilateral tariff reduction agreements within the framework of ALADI. July 17. Tariff exemption was granted un t il Ju ly 17, 1987 on the importation of cattle hides. July 24. The IOF on the importation of selected inputs used in the production of electronic components, semi- 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL conductors, and other electronic equipment was reduced to the following rates: 75 percent on all processed raw material; 50 percent on semimanufactured products; and 25 percent on manufactured products. July 24. The IOF was abolished on the importation of the following goods and payment for services: (1) capital goods used in research and development by the computer industry; (2) computer goods and transfer of computer technology; (3) machinery, equ ipmen t, and other instru- ments for which there are no domestically produced equivalents used as fixed capital in the computer indus t ry; and (4) payments on transfers of technology resulting from contracts in the microelectronics indus t ry. July 24. The IOF was eliminated on the importation of (1) selected hides and skins imported by the leather processing industry and enterprises engaged in commer- cial exports provided shipment was made between July 19, 1986 and October 31, 1986; (2) machinery and capital equipment imported by the leather-processing indus try; and (3) imports of additives, vitamins, and raw materials used as inputs in the production of animal food. July 25. The IOF was eliminated on imports of certain types of meat and beans provided shipment was made before October 31,1986 and February 28,1987, respectively. October 31. Exchange contracts for imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days in advance of the maturity date of the letters of credit. November 24. The IOF on the importation of machines, equ ipmen t, parts, and components for the production of gelatinous capsules for pharmaceutical use was abolished in the absence of a similar national product. Exports and Export Proceeds April 4. Exporters of gems and other precious stones were allowed to obtain gold from the Central Bank in exchange for their export receipts. November 21. Exports of coffee were exempt from the export tax and made subject to a contribution quota. November 25. The contribution quota for coffee was set at 5 percent of the m in imum registration price for 60 kilogram bags announced daily by the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te. Payments for Invisibles July 23. A compulsory capital contribution to the National Development Fund, in the form of an IOF and at the rate of 25 percent, was levied on the sale of foreign exchange for travel purposes. The tax will remain in effect until December 31, 1987. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.1 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.5 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's ex- change controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Financial Resources. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in foreign currency, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to author- ized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial insti- tutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Com- merce in the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attes- tations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside !The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. the French Franc Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained with respect paymen ts. to external Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Ni- geria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the French Franc Area) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouaga- dougou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior au- thorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; however, for the purpose of monitoring, prior acquisition of an official import document may be necessary for imports exceeding an amount specified by the Minister of Commerce; an import license is required for those products subject to quota, and a prior import authorization is required for all other products. For imports subject to quota, a special commission (Commission des Importations) fixes the quotas and allocates them among importers. All other imports may require prior authorization, depending on the circum- 3A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO stances. Noncommercial imports require a special au- thorization, to be obtained in advance from the Ministry of Commerce. Imports of goods subject to special controls require the prior approval of the competent ministry. On the other hand, imports of certain products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import document requirement. The Minister of Na- tional Commerce and Supply may, on the basis of criteria established by his Ministry, waive the prescribed for- malities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statistical duty of 3 percent. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment, if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justi- fication. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Burkina Faso must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Larger allocations are granted, however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Res- idents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. 128 Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks, etc. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitoring, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization by the competent services of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Commerce and Supply, exports of certain products may be subject to special regulations. Exports of any product may require prior special authorization from the compe- tent services of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, depending on circumstances. Exports to Ghana are sub- ject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the com- mercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destina- tion). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export attestation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical du ty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days after return. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Bur- kina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization by the Min- ister of Financial Resources. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are main- tained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization by the Minister of Financial Resources4 and unless specifically exempted by the Min- ister of Financial Resources, 75 percent of such invest- ments must be financed from borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be declared to the Minister of Financial Resources before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postpone- ment of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be reported to the Minister of Financial Resources. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Burkina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Bu rk ina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burk ina Faso of foreign companies. BURKINA FASO Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization by the Minister of Financial Re- sources, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Financial Re- sources. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Financial Resources to finance international merchanting transac- tions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign cur- rency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not consti- tuting a direct investment requires the special authori- zation of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Financial Resources. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enter- prises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are estab- lished, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enterprise that undertakes to create or considerably expand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Financial Resources. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams by travelers. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (C.B.M.P.) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO Changes During 1986 Exports and Export Proceeds May 21. Kiti No. 86-192/CNR/PRES/PRECO granted the monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso to the Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kya t, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange trans- actions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, t h e, Swiss franc, and the U .S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.9698 and K 7.1092, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, and the Ne ther lands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, and the Sin- gapore dollar are determined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpu r, and Singapore markets, respectively; and buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Fi- nance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Burma maintains no bilateral paymen ts agreements. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements w i th India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that coun try. Paymen ts to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, 'or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U .S. dollars. They may be credited and debited free ly, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kya ts; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government may open accounts in U.S. dollars with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of their savings; with exchange control approval, withdrawals from such accounts can be used for payment of personal imports and petty expenses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source —principally opium and other narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports involving use of official foreign exchange are made by the public sector through the Ministries. The Myanma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC) imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, state economic enterprises and de- partments import goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, partly in their own names and partly in the name of the MEIC. Licenses are not required. A licensing fee of 5 percent of the c.i.f. value is levied on imports which are meant for resale, but imports for departmental use are exempted. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation whenever possible. All paymen ts for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank w i th in the approved foreign exchange budget on endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign ex- change allocations can be transferred by a ministry from one enterprise to ano ther; transfers among ministries require cabinet approval. Imports not involving use of official foreign exchange do not require exchange control approval. Such imports for personal use generally do not require permits, but imports of certain durable items which are imported for personal use, such as cars, require specific permits. Burmese nationals working abroad as well as Burmese seamen are, however, permitted to import one vehicle every year. Seamen and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal goods when they enter the coun try. Payments for Invisibles There is no licensing for paymen ts in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All paymen ts for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by-case basis. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted o n ly for foreign tech- nicians employed under contract by the Governmen t, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Burma. Outward remittances of insurance premium payments other than for the Myanma Insurance Corpo- ration are not permitted. The remittance of pension paymen ts to retired government employees is perm i t ted, only if the persons concerned had been nonnationals throughout their term of service, and are now residing in their native countries. Most personal money order re- mittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Burmese nationals require official permission to travel abroad. Such permission may be granted for travel on official missions, for approved religious pilgrimages, or for approved employment abroad. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by-case basis, while travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Tourist travel by Burmese na- tionals has been suspended. Residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents who have stayed in Burma for less than six months may, on leaving the coun try, take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. Those who stay longer than six months must surrender all foreign currency in their possession but may be authorized by the Exchange Control Board to keep foreign currencies in foreign exchange accounts. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic requirements. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of the need for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, ju te, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and sk ins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities, i.e., in approved convertible currencies or by debiting the kyat account of banks in the importing coun try, and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade 132 Bank within six mon ths from the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equali- zation Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered unless otherwise specified by special permission from the exchange control authorities, which may grant such per- mission to foreign nationals residing in Burma in connec- tion with official business. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Burmese na- tionals working abroad under permission from the Gov- ernment are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. In the case of Burmese seamen serving abroad, the repatriation requirement is 50 percent of basic pay, and the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Burmese nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to income tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of such nationals or their families. Burmese nationals working abroad in private organiza- tions are required to remit as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. Capital There is no foreign inves tment code as such; in prin- ciple, inves tment proposals are considered by an Invest- ment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed en- terprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic emp loymen t, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Govern- men t. However, permission for foreign private inves tment in Burma has not been granted since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for inves tmen t. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of paymen ts in favor of non- residents is not perm i t ted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kya ts. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. Individual licenses are required for the im- port, export, and transfer of securities involving nonres- ident interests. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewe lry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. T i c i u u iA • * r» Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of Personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when * was brou§ht into Bu rma- „, _ • mo* Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. BURMA 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bu rundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the SDR. In August 1986, Bu rundi introduced a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate was to be adjusted periodically to reflect underlying economic conditions. On December 31,1986 the exchange rate was FBu 151.5 = SDR 1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 123.00 and FBu 124.79, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Bu rundi franc/SDR rate and the transaction value of these curren- cies in terms of the SDR. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi for currencies quoted by that Bank. An exchange fee of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agreements between these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory coun try. With these exceptions, outgoing paymen ts may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi francs may be main- tained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burund i, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bank notes). All other debits and credits require the 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda f rancs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda sh i l l ings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 134 approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burund i. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad, and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Bu rundi francs for any paymen ts in Burund i, and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except trade samples w i thout commercial value and merchandise not intended for sale whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bu jumbura is FBu 50,000 or less. These licenses, used for statistical purposes, are automatically granted. Au- thorization to import goods for sale using the importer's own foreign exchange is subject to prior payment of customs duties in foreign exchange. Such authorization is granted to approved importers in the form of licenses not involving purchase of official foreign exchange. Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With specified exceptions, authorized banks approve applications for licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 1 million (c. & f ., point of landing); applications for amounts in excess of FBu 1 million require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burund i. A license is valid for four months starting from the day of its validation, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burund i. An administrative tax amounting to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) are subject to preshipment in- spection w i th regard to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, packaging, and price by international agencies. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available un t il ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presen- tation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 40 percent of their net annual income. The permitted annual transfer is 60 percent of income for experts working for the Government under individual employment contracts containing a transfer clause and receiving remuneration entirely in Burundi francs. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately trans- fer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors, not exceeding 45 percent of the distributed profits for industrial and agri- cultural enterprises and 40 percent for commercial and service enterprises, net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income. Up to 40 percent of emoluments paid to foreign directors and auditors are transferable if the recipients are residents, and up to 100 percent if they are nonresidents. Transfer of the balance of the profits may be authorized subsequently as follows: 50 percent after two years of saving, 60 percent after four years, and 100 percent after five years. Profits awaiting remittance are required to be invested or saved at the Treasury, public agencies, public authorities, or financial institutions that manage savings; and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, these provisions are with- out prejudice to any larger transfer guarantees granted by the Investment Code to enterprises that have been accorded special preferential status. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, and office buildings is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for main- tenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years. Transfer of up to 40 percent of rental income from a residential building is permitted, with the balance being transferable after at least three years of placement in investment or savings bonds. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the nature of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi bank notes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets against payment in Bu rundi francs. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, BURUNDI however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization by the Bank of the Republic of Burund i, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require a prior declaration in each case, which must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six mon ths, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Payments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at the customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee from the Rumonge region are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Virtually all exports are subject to export taxes. Exports of manufac- tured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides tax and other benefits for domestic and foreign private in- vestors. A new Investment Law, adopted on July 10, 1986, revised some of the investment procedures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the invest- ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or sus- pended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or sus- pended for up to eight years. Enterprises accorded priority status may be granted reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burund i's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment com- mission under the Planning Secretariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the coun try; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the inves tment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is fur- nished for foreign exchange imported by resident enter- prises to provide working capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is valid for a one-year period and is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. Gold All physical or juridical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burund i. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average monthly rates communicated by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 10. The external value of the Bu rundi franc was changed from FBu 122.7 = SDR 1 to FBu 141.00 - SDR 1. Subsequen t ly, the external value of the Burundi franc was changed in several stages, resulting in a rate of FBu 151.5 - SDR 1 on December 31, 1986. Payments for Invisibles May 1. (1) The limit on transfers of income of foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi was raised from 30 percent to 40 percent; (2) the ceilings for private joint-stock companies on immediate transfers of the return on foreign capital were raised from 40 percent to 45 percent of the distributed profits for industrial and agri- cultural enterprises and from 30 percent to 40 percent for commercial and service enterprises, respectively; (3) the transferable share of emoluments paid to foreign directors and auditors residing in Burundi was raised from 30 percent to 40 percent; (4) the compulsory deposit period for 50 percent of the rental income from foreign owners of commercial, industrial, and office buildings was short- ened from three years to two years; and (5) the ceiling on transfers of net rental income from residential buildings was raised to 40 percent and the compulsory deposit period for the balance was shortened from five to three years. The previous ceiling on the value of foreign travel tickets issued to residents was eliminated. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cameroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, the Central African Re- public, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry, and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks JThe CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Gu inea, and Gabon. in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importa- tion), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more (CFAF 1 million or more in the case of large retail stores), but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Cameroon must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the author- ization of un in terrup ted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after re turn to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding al- location is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on family status, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cam- eroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all coun- tries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 15 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and pro- ceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account country, must be surrendered within a month after collection. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days from the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign cur- rency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or intro- duction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls 138 on capital movements do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign securities and titles em- bodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct inves tmen ts abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report after the fact to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct inves tmen ts in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Came- roonian Governmen t, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whe ther public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. Under the Inves tment Code promulgated in July 1984 and revised in 1985, four categories of fiscal benefits may be granted to foreign and domestic firms undertaking new projects in the agricultural, livestock, forestry, tour ism, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equip- ment maintenance sectors. The Inves tment Code aims to promote sectors considered strategic in the development plan, to generate employment and foreign exchange, and to geographically diversify economic activity. The type and duration of benefits vary according to, inter alia, the size of the inves tmen t, the location of the enterprise, the economic activity under taken, the factor mix, and the production techniques employed. Category A benef i ts, to last over a period of ten years, apply to promotional enterprises investing over the period no less than CFAF 500 million and satisfying a number of prerequisites. The benefits consist of the reduction (to 5 percent) of taxes and duties on imported goods and their exemption on domestic purchases of equ ipmen t, spare parts, and raw materials. Category B benef i ts, which apply to firms in priority sectors investing no less than CFAF 2.5 billion, include, in addition to those under Category A, a number CAMEROON of other fiscal benef i ts related to property transfers and amortizations for a period of five years. Category C benefits apply to small- and medium-size enterprises with an investment level of not more than CFAF 500 million over a ten-year period and are at least 65 percent Cam- eroonian owned. Benef i ts include exemption from a num- ber of asset and income levies. The duration of the benefits extends to 15 years for firms operating outside the areas of highest industrial concentration. Finally, under Category D, strategic firms investing over CFAF 5 billion in 5 years may enjoy the same benefits as under Category B and are guaranteed the maintenance of the fiscal regime for 15 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, in- cluding jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments The import tariffs on a number of consumption and luxury goods were raised in the course of the year. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The authorities of Canada do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 was Can$1.3805 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952 Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile products, clothing, and footwear; certain endangered species of fauna and flora; natural gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are gen- erally not issued. Commercial imports of certain com- modities from any source are tightly controlled or pro- hibited; the main products affected are oleomargarine and used automobiles. Imports of women's and girls' nonrub- ber footwear are subject to a global quota. Imports of clothing and certain textile products from low-cost sources are subject to bilateral agreements. Imports of automo- biles from Japan are effected within the framework of a bilateral unders tand ing aimed at ensuring that such im- ports grow in a manner consistent with the expansion of total demand in the Canadian market. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the Un i ted States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Development Corpora- tion (EDC), including political risk insurance. 140 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts f rom, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broad- casting, and uran ium sectors, inward direct inves tment is governed by the Inves tment Canada Act, under which new foreign investments in industries other than those deemed to be culturally sensitive are subject to notification but not review, and direct takeovers involving assets of less than Can$5 million (Can$50 million for indirect takeovers) are exempt from review except in culturally sensitive sectors. Takeover bids that are subject to review are required only to pass a test of yielding net benefit to Canada. There are no controls over outward direct in- vestment, nor over inward or outward portfolio invest- men t. Although higher ratios may be authorized on a case-by-case basis, in general the domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Canada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all such banks must not exceed 16 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Indus try, Trade, and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, con- taining one ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. Beginning in 1982, Can$10 and Can$5 coins con- taining !/4 and !/io ounce of gold, respectively, have also been issued. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January I. The bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Indonesia was expanded to cover w in ter outerwear, sweaters, sleepwear, underwear, jackets, and rainwear. January 1. Sportswear and terry towels were included in the bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Brazil. January 10. The withdrawal of the du ty-free rate under the General Preference Tariff (GPT) on color television ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receiving sets was made permanent. The withdrawal of the free GPT rate on rubber footwear, other than sandals and riding boots, was extended for a three-year period, until December 31, 1989. January 17. Following the accession of Portugal to the EC, eligibility for the GPT of goods from Portugal and its territories, except Macao, was withdrawn. January 20. The 3.9 percent MFN tariff on computer parts and the 5.4 percent MFN tariff on certain semicon- ductors were removed as a result of a tripartite agreement with the United States and Japan to provide tariff-free entry for computer parts and semiconductors. February 14. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to photo albums with self-adhesive leaves from the Peo- ple's Republic of China. February 28. An agreement was reached with Turkey to restrain exports of pants to Canada until the end of 1986. March 7. A quota was placed on imports of tailored collar shirts from Viet Nam for a 12-month period. March 14. An agreement was reached with Maldives to restrain exports of winter outerwear, blouses, pants, tailored collar shirts, sportswear, sweaters, jackets, rain- wear, and fine suits. March 18. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to hockey pucks from Czechoslovakia and the German Democratic Republic. March 21. Tailored collar shirts were included in the bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Mauritius. March 27. Provisional countervailing duties were im- posed on imports of boneless manufacturing beef from the EC following a preliminary determination by Revenue Canada of injurious subsidization. April 1. Pants were included in the bilateral clothing restraint agreement with Bangladesh. April 17. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to oil and gas well casing from Argentina, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Korea, and the United States. April 18. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to potatoes from the United States. May 13. The GPT on uncoated biaxially oriented polypropylene film with a thickness of 0.025 mm or less was withdrawn for a three-year period. May 21. Negotiations started on a free trade agreement between Canada and the United States. These are ex- pected to be concluded by October 1987. May 29. As compensation to the EC for the quotas on women's and girls' footwear, Canada lowered tariffs on a number of products. June 6. In response to the imposition of a 35 percent import duty by the United States on red cedar shakes and shingles, Canada increased MFN tariff rates from free to 10 percent on certain books, from free to 20.6 percent on catalogues of publications issued by publishers outside Canada, from free to 5.3 percent on printed music, and from free to 11.1 percent on maps and charts. It also restored a 3.9 percent tariff rate on computer CANADA parts and a 5.4 percent rate on certain semiconductor devices that had been removed on January 20, 1986. June 12. Provisional countervailing duties were main- tained on imports of boneless manufacturing beef from the EC following a final subsidy determination by Revenue Canada. June 15. Canada implemented the provisions of the CARIBCAN Agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, imports from Commonwealth countries in the Caribbean are eligible for duty-free treatment.1 June 23. Quotas were imposed on imports of pants, jacke ts, coats, and rainwear from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. June 26. A new textile and clothing import policy was announced. As part of this policy, the Government established three main priorities in negotiations to renew the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA): (1) to hold the growth of low-cost clothing imports closer to the trend growth in the Canadian clothing market; (2) to prevent short- term surges in imports; and (3) to ensure that a "fair share" of the import market would go to the least- developed countries. Canada also would renegotiate its bilateral restraint agreements with 25 low-cost labor countries, with particular emphasis on renegotiating agreements with Korea, Taiwan,t and Hong Kong, which accounted for more than one half of total low-cost imports. As part of the new policy, border controls on textile and clothing imports would be tightened. Inspection proce- dures on fiber context would be upgraded, and a full review of country of origin labeling would be initiated. Canada would also take steps to limit the increase in imports of garments made from fibers not covered by bilateral restraint agreements. On a trial basis, a duty remission program was initiated for tailored collar shirts. This program was designed to enable domestic shirt manufacturers to concentrate on profitable lines of shirts, replacing other production with imports. For every two shirts a Canadian company manufactures, it would be allowed to import one shirt duty free. July 10. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to dry wall screws from Taiwan.! July 22. A bilateral clothing restraint arrangement was concluded with Viet Nam covering winter outerwear, pants, tailored collar shirts, blouses, sweaters, dresses, skirts, coats, jackets, rainwear, and fine suits. The quota on imports of tailored collar shirts was removed. July 25. Final countervailing duties were imposed on imports of boneless manufacturing beef from the EC. July 31. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to alpine ski poles from France and Italy. August 5. Canada and Japan extended their understand- ing on Japanese car exports to Canada through March 1987; it was expected that sales of cars imported from 'Eligible countries under the CARIBCAN agreement are Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Barbados, Belize, The British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Turks and Caicos Islands. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Japan would not exceeed 21 percent of the Canadian market. August 23. The quota imposed on certain imports from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was expanded to cover all clothing. September 1. Carbon steel products were added to the Import Control List for monitoring purposes only. Under the system, permits will be required for all carbon steel imported into Canada, but these will be granted freely on request. September 2. Definitive antidumping duties were ap- plied to vinyl coated fabric from the Republic of Korea. September 15. Definitive antidumping duties were ap- plied to soda ash from the United States. September 19. Definitive antidumping duties were ap- plied to barbed wire from Argentina, Brazil, Poland, and the Republic of Korea. September 26. Definitive antidumping duties were ap- plied to microwave ovens from Japan and the Republic of Korea, and carbon and alloy steel from Belgium, Brazil, Czechoslovakia, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, France, the Netherlands, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of South Africa, Romania, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Such duties were also applied to organic pigments from the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. September 30. Provisional countervailing duties were imposed on imports of dry pasta from the EC following a preliminary determination by Revenue Canada of in- jurious subsidization. October 2. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to paint brushes from the People's Republic of China. October 15. Definitive antidumping duties were applied to ABS resin from the Republic of Korea. November 7. Provisional countervailing duties were imposed on imports of corn from the United States following a preliminary determination by Revenue Canada of injurious subsidization. November 10. Provisional countervailing duties were imposed on imports of carbon steel stainless pipe from Brazil following a preliminary determination by Revenue Canada of injurious subsidization. November 11. Definitive an t idump ing duties were ap- plied to photo albums with self-adhesive leaves from the Republic of Korea. November 26. Definitive an t idump ing duties were ap- plied to artificial graphite electrodes from Belgium, Japan, Sweden, and the United States. December 1. The Government announced that quotas on imports of women's and girls' footwear would be increased by 8 percent for the year ending in November 1987. December 19. Provisional countervailing duties were maintained on imports of dry pasta from the EC following a final subsidy determination by Revenue Canada. December 24. Definitive antidumping duties were ap- plied to 12-guage shotshells from Belgium, Czechoslo- vakia, France, Hungary, Italy, Poland, the United King- dom, and the U .S .S .R. Exports and Export Proceeds May 21. Negotiations started on a free-trade agreement between Canada and the United States. These are ex- pected to be concluded by October 1987. June 27. Exports of cedar bolts were added to the Export Control List, and it was announced that no permits for exports of cedar bolts and logs to the United States would be issued. December 30. A 15 percent ad valorem export tax was imposed on lumber exports to the United States. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The ex- change rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C .V. Esc 76.26 and C .V. Esc 76.87, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange trans- actions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts .1 Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Angola and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made free ly. Em- bassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exclusively with foreign exchange. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can only be credited with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings-credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. 'The authorities have informed the Fund that as of April 1, 1987, they have made arrangements to eliminate all payments arrears. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the State Secretariat for Trade and Tourism, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign ex- change is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are in general granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equ ipmen t. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authorization. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign cur- rency equivalent to C .V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and make a deposit equiv- alent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a max imum of C .V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; s tuden ts who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies in accordance to the coun try of destination and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical trea tment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies in accordance with medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accom- panied by medical certification prior to the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange ex- pend i tures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but may re-export only up to the amount of currency declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing and to approval by the central bank, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean bank notes is prohibited. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities, Changes During 1986 NQ significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BE AC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Re- public do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Bur- kina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, while the Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the same ministry supervises lending abroad, issuing, advertising, or offering for sale foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BE AC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, except those for gold, which are issued by the BE AC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 'The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonres- ident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities that are also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foods tuffs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not originating in a member country of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irre- spective of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EC countries (the original member states) are also free from quantitative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. There has been some accrual of arrears on external paymen ts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed coun- tries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside this area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may 146 bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Re- public and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange con- trol; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed prof i ts; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such inves tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the Min- istry of Finance unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from re- investment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a par- ticipation that had previously been approved as consti- tuting a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authori- zation: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by reg- istered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstand- ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19,1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive ex- emption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Indus try, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission, which considers the application. If a positive decision is given by the Com- mission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been offi- cially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and be made only through authorized banks and with bank checks. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is ad- ministered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Department, which exercises this authority through instructions issued in the authorized intermediaries. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account coun try, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in •The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, the Congo, Equatorial Gu inea, and Gabon. 148 any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs main- tained by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are prohibited. Imports of whea t, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EC countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made free ly. All imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign ex- change required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries w i th abnormal competitive advantages. In ad- dition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, coun- tries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports from certain neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transac- tions. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended until fur ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external paymen ts owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Govern- ment and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of paymen t, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current paymen ts, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. This allocation is increased by the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a max imum allocation of the equiv- alent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Department may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for children under 10 years of age is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring coun- tries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun try must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received w i th in 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be CHAD collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surren- dered within two mon ths of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of paymen t. Foreign bank notes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their re turn. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign cur- rency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the excep- tion of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct inves tmen ts abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct inves tmen ts in Chad must also be declared to the M in is ter. Both the making and the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. Inc lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD by a guarantee from the Chadian Governmen t, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commer- cial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, with an interest rate not higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial trans- actions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Min- ister of Finance who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior autho- rization by the Ministry of Finance and by the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as the visa of the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV IE ), which is an approved private company. Un- worked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). The official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U .S. dollar, at a rate adjusted at daily intervals according to a schedule established on the basis of the domestic rate of inf la t ion during the previous mon th, less the estimated world rate of inflation. On December 31, 1986 the official exchange rate was Ch$201.46 per US$1. Foreign exchange dealers, the Banco del Estado, com- mercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities are free to trade in foreign exchange at any price. However, the Central Bank intervenes in the foreign exchange market when the upper or lower limit (±2 percent on either side of the official rate) is reached. Commercial banks are authorized to provide a market for foreign exchange options with a maturity of between 15 and 180 days. On ma tu r i ty, contracts are settled in pesos on the basis of the difference between the market rate and the contract rate. Direct transactions in foreign exchange among private parties can take place at freely negotiated exchange rates, provided that they are occa- sional and unpublicized. Commissions on exchange trans- actions are subject to a 20 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso w i th other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U .S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank applies an exchange subs idy on service payments on external debt of an original amount of less than US$50,000, contracted before August 6, 1982.l The following have access to the remaining subs idy: (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad whose obligations were registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes indexed to inflation with a ma tur i ty of six years, and carrying a 3 percent rate of interest. On December 31, 1986 the difference between the official rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$69.8 per US$1. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out currency exchange policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper indus t ry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with general rules enacted by the Central Bank. •The exchange subs idy on amoun ts of more than US$50,000, wh ich cons t i tu tes the bu lk of ou ts tand ing obligations, was e l im ina ted as of December 31, 1986. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with the Dominican Republic must be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements w i th other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free, w i th the exception of used motor vehicles. All imports require a document (known as Informe de Importation) issued by the Central Bank, which can be obtained and processed through the inter- mediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions is not permitted unless an Informe de Im- portation has been issued. Since March 23, 1983, imports are subject to a 120-day minimum financing requ iremen t. Importers may purchase spot exchange before the payment date and place a deposit in foreign exchange at the Central Bank in anticipation of paymen t. Imports on deferred payment terms (cober- tura diferida), that is, on credit terms exceeding 360 days, require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 percent of value, which is offset against the applicable import du ty. Since June 29, 1985, imports are subject to a un iform 20 percent tariff rate, with some exceptions. Exceptions include tariffs bound under the GATT and tariffs negotiated with LAIA coun- tries. A few items are exempted from the general tariff regime. Imports of some dairy products, such as con- densed and powdered milk, bu t te r, and cheese, are subject to specific duties and to a customs valuation regime based on the European Commun i ty internal prices for these products. Since May 2, 1984, imports of whea t, edible oil, and sugar have been subject to a special regime invo lv ing price bands w i th in which the af ter-du ty price has to rema in. In add i t ion, tariff du t ies or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, on imports of certain products that are subsidized in the coun try of origin. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documen ta t ion. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a trip for travel to Latin America and Caribbean countries and of US$3,000 a trip to other countries. For travel by land, 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 20 percent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange, and the rest, in money orders. Higher amoun ts for travel other than tourism may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate jus t i f ica t ion. Residents may purchase up to US$200 a mon th for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines, books, and pension paymen ts, subject to presentation of appropriate documen ts. Higher amoun ts may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate jus t if ica t ion. Insurance activities w i th in the country are limited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise the Director of Operations of the Central Bank immediately (the Chilean Copper Commis- sion in the case of copper). Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 5 percent of export proceeds in a special Foreign Exchange Account, but the cumu la t ive deposits in any such account during a 12-month period may not exceed US$500,000. Receipts from exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender requ iremen ts must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of shipment and surrendered w i th in 101 days from the date of sh ipmen t; for specified goods, this period may be extended. As a means of expediting the operation of the drawback system in respect of small export values, exporters of eligible items (approximately 6 percent of the coun t ry 's annual exports), whose average annual exports in 1983 and 1984 were less than US$2.5 million, have an option of taking a subsidy equal to 10 percent of the net export value of their sales (within an overall value not exceeding on average US$7.5 million during 1985-86), in lieu of benef i ts under the existing import du ty drawback scheme; a l terna t ive ly, such exporters may avail themse lves of the provisions of Decree No. 409, under which they may draw back the ir paymen ts of du t ies on imported inpu ts. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other bene f i ts related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concerning the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, fam i ly remittances, and the surplus foreign exchange from travel allocations. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most ou tf lows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing 152 of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank; the exceptions to this regulation are lines of credit of up to one-year ma tur i ty with foreign correspondents, and short-term loans for domestic relending up to a limit determined mainly by a bank 's capital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings even if they do not require its approval. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the inves tmen t. (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates, inter alia, that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks when the investor ( ind iv idual or corporate, national or foreign) has registered the transaction w i th the Central Bank. There is no m in imum term on the ma tur i ty of foreign borrowing. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated paymen ts or extensions of pay- ment are subject to special authorization. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of Ju ly 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Inve s tment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital inves tmen t. Authorization to make a foreign ex- change inves tment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Inve s tment Committee through a contract containing under tak ings that the inves tment program will normally not exceed eight years for m in ing and three years for other projects. Inves tmen ts of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit rem i t tances, but specific agreements in th is regard may be included in the above-mentioned inves tment contract. Capital may be repatriated after three years unless specified otherwise in the inves tment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 percent a year total corporation income tax over a period o f t en years, or may subject themse lves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (currently 48.5 per- cent). Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under Presidential Decree; rights and re- sponsibilities under such a Decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Compen- d ium of Rules on International Exchange, as amended in May 1985, regulate the purchase of selected Chilean foreign debt ins trumen ts abroad at a discount as well as their repatriation. Eligible ins trumen ts are defined as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, the debtor of which may be either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector en t i ty, the Development Corporation (CORFO), a financial ins t i tu t ion, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial ins t i tu t ion. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt ins trumen ts by foreign residents for direct inves tment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval of the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a do- mestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct inves tment purposes, with the inter- mediation of a financial ins t i tu t ion; special regulations apply to repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend paymen ts. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remittance rights) by residents and nonresidents of debt purchased at a discount abroad with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private-sector external debt not guaranteed by the Gove rnmen t. Transactions under Chap- ter XVIII are also channeled through financial ins t i tu t ions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely under taken. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance w i th the normal formalities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. CHILE / Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate was adjusted daily during the year from Ch$180.22 - US$1 on December 31, 1985 toCh$201.46 = US$1 on December 31, 1986, representing a depreciation of 10.5 percent against the U.S. dollar. January I. Regulations authorizing commercial banks to provide a market for foreign exchange options became effective. Options may have a ma tur i ty of between 15 and 180 days and are settled in pesos on the basis of the differences between the market rate and the contract rate. December 31. As scheduled in the Ju ly 1985 amend- ments to the existing special arrangements, the subsidy on service paymen ts on external debt contracted before August 6, 1982 was eliminated for debt of an original amount exceeding US$50,000. Payments for Invisibles June 30. The basic travel allowance was increased from US$500 to US$750 a trip for travel to Latin America and from US$1,500 to US$2,250 a trip to other countries. December 31. The basic travel allowance was increased from US$750 to US$ 1,000 a trip for travel to Latin America and from US$2,250 to US$3,000 a trip to other countries. Capital May 6. Restrictions on the use of peso assets (without remittance rights) obtained by residents and nonresidents at a discount abroad with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market (transactions under Chapter XV I II of the Chilean Compend ium of Rules on International Exchange) were lifted. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its unit is the yuan. Since January 1, 1986 China has followed an exchange arrangement whereby the exchange rate for the renminbi is based on develop- ments in the balance of paymen ts and in costs and exchange rates of China's major competitors. The ex- change rates for the U.S. dollar and 19 other currencies are published on a daily basis by the State Administration of Exchange Control;1 on December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 3.7128 and Y 3.7314, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transactions are changed whenever the cal- culated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 1 percent; for the important currencies, such as the Hong Kong dollar and the Japanese yen, a smaller margin of 0.5 percent is applied. Settlement for all spot trans- actions is effected at the official exchange rate. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 curren- cies.2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are only permitted in con- nection with an underlying trade transaction. When banks sell renminbi forward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except for the deutsche mark, Neth- erlands guilder, Japanese yen, and Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six mon ths; transactions can be renewed for a fur ther six mon ths, but not for longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the currencies concerned. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises central bank func t ions and control over foreign exchange; and the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC), as a government institution under the leadership of the People's Bank of China, is responsible for implementing the exchange regulations and controlling all foreign ex- change transactions in accordance with state policy. There are sub-bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, autonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is the specialized foreign exchange bank of the People's Republic of China. Other banks and financial institutions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the ap- proval of the SAEC. Currently 90 institutions are au- 1 Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 154 thorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. The China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions connected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and financial institutions may hold foreign exchange but may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Special exchange control measures are applied to special eco- nomic zones, the 14 designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions are generally conducted in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has responsibility for foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recommended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total external borrowing, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) prepares estimates for those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade, foreign loans, and China's external assistance program; the foreign exchange budgets of other government departments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transac- tions, receipts from overseas Chinese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordinated and balanced by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and is submitted to the State Council for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is responsible for supervising the implementation of the foreign exchange plan. In principle, the foreign exchange plan covers all transactions, including those with countries with which China maintains bilateral payments agreements.3 The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, SAEC and the State Planning Commission review the implementation of the plan and determine whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade policies, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are expressed in Swiss francs, and those with Albania and Cuba, in U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate and settled through bilateral payments 3China maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with the following Fund members: Afghan is tan, Bangladesh, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, and Sierra Leone. It also maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arrangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transac- tions are settled on a current basis in convertible curren- cies, except for part of such transactions with the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania and all the transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by terms agreed under the respective contracts. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are of two kinds: Type A agreements are designed to ensure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities that cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. Most arrangements are of this type. Type B agreements (those with the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sierra Leone) provide such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also include nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China. Joint ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. With the permission of the Bank of China, foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transaction. The BOC may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Foreign banks in Special Economic Zones may lend in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from joint venture companies. Individuals may open resident foreign currency ac- counts at the Bank of China and may withdraw funds from such accounts in the form of foreign currency. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with Israel, the Republic of Korea, and South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for formulating foreign trade policies and ensuring the implementation of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFERT, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports;5 following the reform in the 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of foreign coun- tries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Foreign embassies are also included. 5MOFERT itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest it delegates its authority to its special commission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts —commissions on foreign economic relations and trade (COFERT). PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA exchange and trade system effected in early 1985, the MOFERT no longer engages in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily enter- prise management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by national foreign trade corporations and other entities licensed by MOFERT to conduct foreign trade; in addition, certain manufacturing companies are permitted to engage directly in foreign trade, and some companies conduct foreign trade as agents on a commis- sion basis. Exporters and importers can freely choose their agents; however, a limited number of essential import commodities continue to be handled by one of the 14 national foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, other than registered national foreign trade corporations, need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with the authorization of MOFERT and a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. Proceeds of certain exports (joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned companies) may be retained in a foreign exchange account with the BOC or an authorized bank. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the BOC, unless specific exception is granted by the SAEC, and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in com- pensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas6 in the SAEC or its sub-bureaus by localities and enterprises in accordance with state regulations. The percentage of export earnings that can be retained varies with the enterprise. Before using their holdings of foreign exchange or foreign exchange retention quotas, enter- prises other than the national foreign trade corporations must seek the approval of the SAEC. The BOC provides foreign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Residents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports consist of those included in the Annual Import Plan and those outside of the annual plan. The foreign trade plan is drawn up by MOFERT in conjunction with the SPC. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions, which, in turn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by MOFERT and the SPC at national foreign trade planning confer- ences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not in- cluded in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domestically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of 6A retention quota constitutes a right* to purchase foreign exchange in the fu tu re for renminbi. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories—restricted imports and unrestricted imports.7 A number of restricted imports overlap with those in- cluded in the annual import plan.8 Import licensing serves to limit, and in some cases, prohibit imports of restricted goods that are included in the annual plan. In addition, imports of seven assembly lines on the restricted list (for television sets, household refrigerators, household wash- ing machines, radio-cassette recorders, room air-condi- tioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are effec- tively banned through the licensing system; import of these lines requires approval by the State Economic Commission which currently does not grant approval. Apart from imports that are restricted through the licensing system, a few types of imports are explicitly banned, such as all second-hand garments. Imports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as is the export of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare animals, seeds and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the import and export of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and trans- mitters, Chinese currency, manuscripts, printed and re- corded materials, and films that are deemed to be detri- mental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and exports require prior inspection before release by the customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of specified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Provisional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Re- public of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: minimum and general. The m in imum tariff rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tariff clauses therein9; the gen- 7As of October 1986, there were 45 goods on the restricted list. In 1984 and 1985 these amounted to about 30 percent of total imports. 8In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis. The coverage of the import plan also changes. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. ^hese countries are as follows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Ben in, Burund i, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Ja- maica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Bu rma, Cyp ru s, Iraq, Jordan, Democratic Kam- puchea, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepa l, Oman, Pakistan, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Thailand, Tu rkey, Viet N am, Yemen Arab Repub l ic, and People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Au s t r ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, F in land, France, German Democratic Repub l ic, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, Ire land, I t a l y, Luxembou rg, Ne the r land s, No rway, Portugal, Roman ia, 156 eral tariff rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tariff clauses. The duties are calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imported goods. Excluding goods that are exempt from duties, goods in the general tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 8 percent to 180 percen t, and goods in the m in imum tariff rate category are sub ject to 17 rates ranging from 3 percent to 150 percent. In addition to the import duties mentioned above, a regulatory tax on imports is applied to 15 selected products; the regu- latory tax rates range from 20 percent to 80 percent. Imports into Tibet through border trade with the neigh- boring countries are subject to a separate system of customs duties established by the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The tariff, however, applies to goods imported directly into Tibet for use only. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, munici- palities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese tariff. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated industrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applied to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for further processing are exempted from both customs duties and commercial taxes, provided that the products are all exported within a specified period. Most imports and exports by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Special economic zones have been set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Economic and techno- logical development areas have been established in 14 designated coastal cities. Foreigners, overseas Chinese, and Chinese from the Hong Kong and Macao regions are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas. Raw materials, equ ipmen t, and machinery or parts and components thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties and the consolidated industrial and commercial tax. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earnings from invisibles to the BOC, except for the portion they may retain in accordance with specific regulations. For- eign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open an account in the Bank of China or an authorized bank. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before becom- ing residents may be retained. Such retained foreign exchange may be sold to the BOC or remitted through Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the BOC, or taken out of China against certification by the Bank of China. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repa- triated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain such earnings according to prevailing regula- tions. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remittances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,10 may remit their salaries and other income earned in China, after payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and approval by the relevant local authorities. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange reg- ulations; such remittances are subject to the approval of the local branch of the BOC and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Re- mitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, but only if the profits have been generated in areas other than the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the 14 selected coastal cities. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remittances. In cases of serious illness, death, or in jury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may be allocated the necessary foreign exchange on presentation of doc- umentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence; any surplus must be re- patriated and surrendered to the BOC. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is normally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but he is not normally permitted to remit the proceeds from any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by nonresi- dents may be converted into either renm inbi or foreign exchange certificates denominated in renm inb i. Foreign exchange certificates can be used solely by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonres iden ts, for purchasing airline tickets and train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecom- munications and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering Ch ina must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on pre- sentation of the import declaration form issued by the 10Including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA customs. The import and export of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but their export is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they have been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authori- zation to export foreign currency at the border. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without establishments in China is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is applied for foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technolog- ical development areas in the old urban areas of the 14 coastal cities. Joint ventures are required to be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified either as "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.11 Plan borrowing includes borrow- ing by the Central Government (through PBC, MOF, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, MOFERT and enterprises under the control of MOFERT) from inter- national organizations and bilateral sources; borrowing by CITIC and other investment and trust companies (ITICS) (mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad) to finance plan projects; borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; and borrowing by provincial governments (either directly and through the BOC) for large projects included in provincial governments' annual plans. Nonplan bor- rowing includes borrowing by the BOC for purposes other than projects included in the annual plan (this includes interbank loans and foreign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad), foreign exchange deposit taking by other financial institutions, short-term trade credits, borrowing by joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned companies, all borrowing at the provincial level to finance small projects, lease financing and borrowing from offshore Chinese enterprises (mainly in Hong Kong). The total amount of external borrowing for a specified fu ture period and its split between concessional and nonconcessional sources is approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agencies (MOF, MOFERT, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. Proposals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and in "In April 1986 the State Council appointed the SAEC (a un it w i th in PBC) as the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. The SAEC perm i ts BOC and other financial and nonfinancial ins t i tu t ions responsible for under tak ing commercial borrowing to borrow up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by SAEC. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA cooperation with the SAEC, MOF, and MOFERT rec- ommends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. If the imports are for new con- struction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Economic Commission. Within these guidelines, loans from international finan- cial institutions and foreign governments require the sanction of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international development agencies are gen- erally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direc- tion of the Ministry); intergovernmental loans are the responsibility of MOFERT, and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the PBC. Government departments, local governments, and enter- prises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICS, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Foreign borrowing in the form of deferred payments requires the approval of MOFERT. Resident organizations may not issue securities for foreign exchange unless approved by the PBC. Provincial governments are permitted to borrow for nonplan projects up to specified limits, but beyond these limits, borrowing must be justified on the basis of project and financial analysis and submitted to SAEC for ap- proval. All commercial borrowing abroad (including bond issues) for nonplan purposes requires prior SAEC ap- proval. Joint venture enterprises and 100 percent foreign owned companies are required to balance their foreign exchange receipts and payments. While their borrowing is not subject to prior approval by SAEC, it must be reported to SAEC.12 All foreign direct inves tment projects are in principle subject to the approval of MOFERT. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct investment projects up to specified amounts. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Most foreign ex- change earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploitation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the foreign ex- change account of the joint venture. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and the 14 coastal cities, and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other spec- ified resources,13 are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, which is waived for joint ventures in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas of the 14 coastal cities. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profitmaking years and be allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be eco- nomically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a further 15-30 percent reduction in income tax for the following ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other economic organizations that have establishments in China engaged in independent business operations, cooperative produc- tion, or joint business operations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks originating from countries in which income from interest on deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are correspondingly exempt from this Chinese tax. For in- terest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit agreements by foreign business without establishments in China, trade agree- ments, and leasing agreements signed by them with Chinese companies and enterprises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half the normal rate) during the validity of the aforesaid agreements; interest earnings from export credits are entitled to income tax exemption. For fees collected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided by them in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, environmental protection, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, on the approval of the tax authorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 12To assist ind iv idual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit. l3The special tax rate for these firms is 15 percent. In addition, new joint ventures scheduled to operate for ten years or more may, inter alia, be exempted from taxation in the first and second profitmaking years. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution percent, or be waived if the technology is advanced and is provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as working balance. Chinese diplomatic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in the Hong Kong and Macao regions, are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The People's Bank of China buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, in- dustrial, and approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from the customs or a PBC export permit. Nonresidents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange arrangement was modified from a system of pegging to a basket of currencies to one of managed floating. June 13. Shanghai International Trust and Investment Corporation was authorized to handle exchange business. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Steel and pesticides were made subject to import licensing. January 16. China and Sudan signed a trade agreement. March 19. China and the U.S.S.R. signed an agreement to expand economic, trade, scientific, and technical cooperation. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA March 19. China and Nepal agreed to take measures to increase the volume of trade, diversify the range of commodities, and gradually minimize the imbalance in bilateral trade. May 16. China and the United States signed a coop- eration agreement regarding mechanical technology. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. Regulations pertaining to jo int ventures were revised and/or codified in Regulations on Foreign Currency Balance of Equity Joint Ventures. New rules encourage joint ventures to increase exports of domestic products including those produced under state monopoly or that require export licenses. In addition, joint ven tures are now permitted to sell their products to enterprises outside the Special Economic Zones and coastal devel- opment areas for foreign currency if these goods serve as import substitutes or offer highly sophisticated products produced with advanced technology. Foreign firms in- volved in two or more jo int ven tures were permitted to distribute foreign exchange among them as needed rather than keeping separate accounts. Also, foreign partners were permitted to invest renminbi earnings in other joint ventures that earn foreign currency. January 22. China signed an oil and coal agreement with Japan which will remain in effect until 1990. The agreement calls for Japan to import between 8.8 million and 9.3 million tons of crude oil per year and between 3.7 million and 4.1 million tons of coal. April 12. The law of the People's Republic of China on Foreign Ventures was promulgated. May 15. China and the United Kingdom signed loan and investment agreements to increase the flow of capital from the United Kingdom to China and to insure com- panies against expropriation of assets. October 11. Legislation was passed providing invest- ment incentives for joint ventures and wholly foreign- owned enterprises in export-oriented and technologically advanced sectors. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The Colombian authorities follow a policy of adjusting the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colom- bia's overall balance of payments performance. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. In the case of export proceeds, exporters have the option of either immediate conversion or acquisition of exchange certifi- cates with a maturity of 90 days. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Col$219.00 and Col$219.88, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates, which result from (1) a 6.5 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates granted at three different percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of a remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments; and (4) a 95 percent advance exchange license deposit for import payments. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) to government enterprises in the oil sector and to public sector recipients of external loans, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of 24 mon ths, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos at the certificate market buy ing rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at 1.5 points above the New York prime rate, if held by government enterprises in the oil sector, or an interest 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 160 rate equal to that of the external loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the previous day before the certificate is issued if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 24 mon ths cannot be converted in to exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twen ty- fourth mon th. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade ( INCOMEX ). Ex- change for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, paymen ts for specified current transactions, when made through credit institu- tions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post au then t ica t ion. All paymen ts for s tudy purposes require prior authorization by the Colombian Ins t i tu te for Inter- national Education (!CETEX). The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget, and it did so in 1985. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, and other public entities, determines overall import and export policy and assigns foreign exchange for imports in the following order of priority: (1) raw materials and spare parts; (2) imports of El Cerrejon coal project; (3) public sector imports of agricultural products; (4) fuel imports; (5) capital goods imports for export industries; and (6) other imports. A joint Trade Commission (Comision Mixta de Comercio Exterior), with representatives from the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, and the private sector, serves as an advisory committee on foreign trade. IN- COMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, administers special import-export arrangements in the form of barter, clear- ing, and triangular trade operations, and also sets maxi- mum import prices for certain commodities. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Ex- change Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution current invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import paymen ts. Payments and receipts are normally effected in U .S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Settlements for commercial transactions w i th countries with wh ich Colombia has bilateral paymen ts or reciprocal credit agreements2 must be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of the particular bilateral paymen ts agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Par- aguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, Yugoslavia, the U.S.S.R., and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to one of the following regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring only registration with INCOMEX; (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license; (3) goods included in the prohibited import list; and (4) goods requiring special import-export arrangements for their importation. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable only to member countries of the LAI A, and special lists applicable only to less-developed member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. Operations under special import-export arrangements in the form of barter, clear- ing, and triangular trade arrangements are required to take place in accordance w i th the relevant regulations 2Colombia maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland. (The arrangement w i th Romania expired on De- cember 31, 1986, and a new reciprocal credit agreement is in the process of being approved .) COLOMBIA issued by the Monetary Board in the event that they give rise to a request for foreign exchange or to an obligation to surrender foreign exchange. These arrangements in- volve payments in foreign currency in cases when the Colombian importer and the Colombian exporter are not the same juridical entity and, in addition, the import operation is not followed by the export operation contem- plated in the arrangement because of noncompliance on the part of the exporter. In such cases, INCOMEX designates a "responsible party," which is requested to provide the value of the import in pesos plus a peso-denominated fine. Similarly, the exporter participating in barter ar- rangements is requested to surrender the foreign exchange earned in the case when the export operation precedes the import operation and the importer fails to comply with the terms of the arrangement. INCOMEX encourages special import-export operations as a means to promote, through other foreign trade mechanisms, exports which would not be carried out otherwise. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and non- reimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve pur- chase of official foreign exchange, including imports of machinery and equipment, financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substi- tutes are available. Import licenses for certain items are normally not issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products, for which the validity period is three months. Import licenses can be extended for suc- cessive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended for only two successive three- month periods. All imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500 are subject to registration with INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceeding US$10,000 are also classified as minor imports and are not subject to registration. The charge for import registration is Col$l,500. An advance exchange license deposit (consig- nation) has to be lodged at the official rate for exchange certificates at least 20 calendar days prior to an application for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 percent of the value of the exchange license. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 percent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are temporary imports; imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for CORFERIAS (International Commerce Fair of Bogota), for the free 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA port of San Andres y Providencia, or effected through the Port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 percent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Government. All imports (except newsprint) are subject to a stamp tax of 1 percent of the f.o.b. value, as well as to a temporary surcharge of 8 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight payments, a freight company must, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 95 percent of payment value. Payments for more than 80 percent of total import or export freight are allowed only if it can be established that freight costs payable in local currency amounted to less than 20 percent of total cost. Services may be imported through special import- export arrangements in the form of barter, clearing, and triangular trade arrangements. Most payments for invisibles, including banking com- missions, international air travel, and expenses incurred in the export of noncoffee products, are subject to exchange licenses. Banks may transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles, including interest on suppliers' credit, medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support, and for the service of registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Foreign exchange purchases for travel are limited to the equivalent of US$90 a day, up to US$1,500 a year, for those under 12 years of age; US$180 a day, up to US$3,000 a year, for an adult; and up to US$250 a day, within a limit of US$12,500 a year, for "special" travelers (defined as those traveling for reasons that are of particular usefulness in the economic and social development of the country). Remittances abroad for study purposes are subject to the following limits: (1) US$300 for travel; (2) US$400 for books and study material; (3) US$400 to cover thesis fees; (4) up to US$500 monthly for living expenses; (5) up to US$250 monthly for expenses incurred by a spouse if coursework extends beyond six mon ths; and (6) a once- and-for-all US$500 allowance for unforeseen expendi- tures. Registration fees for courses approved by the ICETEX, as well as health and accident insurance for students, are not subject to limits. Requests for foreign exchange for study purposes have to be approved by ICETEX. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 percent of the capital base a year. Profits beyond such limit may count toward increasing the capital base up to a yearly maximum of 7 percent of registered capital and only when at least 50 percent of the amount is reinvested in bonds issued by the Industrial Promotion Institute or in new enterprises satisfying the following criteria: (1) at least 80 percent of their production is exported; and (2) at least 40 percent of their financing is in the form of direct foreign investment and/or foreign 162 medium- and long-term loans. These limitations do not hold for multinational enterprises in which at least 80 percent of the capital is held by investors in the countries of the Andean Pact; in such cases, profits can be reinvested and transferred freely. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency of up to US$100 on presentation of their passports. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 percent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are re- quired to pay a travel tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Institute de Mercado Agropecuario (!DEMA). No export licenses are required, but prior application for registration is necessary for all exports except samples and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any funds) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 5 percent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are normally as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export (180 days for instant coffee); and (2) for other goods, generally within 5 months of registration. How- ever, longer time periods for the surrender of proceeds are permitted for exports to Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Venezuela; goods sold on a commission basis; books, magazines, and other printed matter (18 months); capital goods (2 years); and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, with the exception of export proceeds of the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL) and ex- ports of minerals associated with state enterprises, which are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (Certificados de Reembolso Tributario, or CERTs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. Three rates—5, 9, and 14 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution operations. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exporters can, as an option, be effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates (of 90 days' maturity), which are negotiable on the stock exchange. Minimum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations. (1) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insur- ance at US$206.00 a 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 6.5 percent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percent is paid to the National Coffee Fund, and 0.8 percent is paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Growers; the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equivalent of 68 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax); the tax must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted against exchange certificates, which can be sold on the stock exchange. In respect of exchange receipts from gifts and the rendering of profes- sional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required before conversion. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 percent advance payment deposit on all ou tf lows, which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,3 and the movement of capital previously im- ported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Direct foreign investment regulations in Colombia are in accordance with the provisions of Decisions Nos. 24 3Loans by financial entities for the import of goods also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). COLOMBIA and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement, which govern foreign investment within the member countries of the Andean Pact. The National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) can legislate special conditions affect- ing foreign investment so as to overrule the above- mentioned provisions. Foreign investment is required to become 51 percent Colombian-owned by the fifteenth year after its registration, with the exception of investment in enterprises that satisfy one of the following conditions: (1) at least 25 percent of their production is exported; or (2) at least 50 percent of their material inputs are of Colombian origin. Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for purposes of ful- filling the Colombian ownership requirement, provided that profit and capital remittances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Capital imports require prior approval by the National Planning Department, with the exception of capital for the petroleum industry, which requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and capital for mineral exploration other than petroleum, which requires approval by both the National Planning Department and the Min- istry of Mines. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian majority participation. New foreign di- rect investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from mem- ber countries of the Andean Pact and to national or mixed companies on the basis of reciprocal treatment. The purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Banking Superintendent. Capital registration enti- tles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions spec- ified in Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is limited to 20 percent of registered direct inves tment with certain exceptions (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above); where the profits were earned (and not remitted) prior to the coming into force of Decree Law No. 444 of 1967, the additional remittances must not exceed 3 percent a year. Special legal regimes exist for direct foreign investment in the nickel, coal, and uranium sectors, which waive the 20 percent limit on the transfer of profits abroad. A special regime also applies to a total of 34 different industrial activities, including fishing, food products, leather prod- ucts, chemicals, iron and steel, machine tools, engines, specialized machinery, shipbuilding, automobiles, the aeronautic industry, and photographic equipment, as well as in enterprises exporting at least 50 percent of their output. This regime allows remittances in a percentage of dollar-denominated capital determined by ^adding 20 points to the average New York prime interest rate prevailing in the year of registration of the foreign in- vestment transaction, as estimated by the Bank of the Republic. Other special regimes are applicable to (1) the earthquake-hit area of Popayan, which allow profit re- mittances on invested capital in a percentage equivalent to 25 percent above the average New York prime interest rate in the year of registration of the capital inflows; and 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (2) bordering regions, which allow transfer of profits up to 24 percent of the dollar-denominated investment. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum maturity of three years with one year of grace and an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIB OR. Such loans are normally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or govern- mental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Government, the following are also required: prior authorization by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Inter- parliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they also require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties, but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Export of capital by resi- dents is restricted, and such export by private individuals is not normally permitted. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by insurance companies, export firms, transportation companies, and other specified entities, upon prior au- thorization of the Bank of the Republic. A ceiling equiv- alent to 5 percent of their total foreign liabilities is applied on the foreign currency deposits that may be held by domestic financial institutions. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets during the preceding week. The Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 percent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervision of the Super- 164 intendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Res- idents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate for the Colombian peso was adjusted on several occasions during the year from Col$172 - US$1 at the end of December 1985 to Col$219 = US$1 at the end of December 1986. Imports and Import Payments February 5. A total of 453 entries in the customs tariff schedule was transferred from the Prior Import License List to the Free Import List. In addition, up to 45 percent of the mon th ly foreign exchange budget was to be dis- tributed for free imports, and up to 55 percent for prior license imports. February 5. Import licenses and registrations, including those under the SIEX plan, were made valid for six months, with the following exceptions: (1) registrations and licenses for imports of goods, live animals, vegetable products, animal oils and fats, and products from the food industry were made valid for three months; and (2) registrations and licenses for imports of capital goods were made valid for 12 months. February 5. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic was authorized to grant exchange licenses for imports of goods without subjecting them to minimum financing terms. March 4. For requests for registration of free imports, priority was given to raw materials, intermediate inpu ts, capital goods, books, and scientific and cultural publications. April 9. The distribution of the monthly foreign ex- change budget was changed to up to 50 percent for free imports and no less than 50 percent for prior license imports; 203 entries in the customs tariff schedule were shifted from the Prior Import License List to the Free Import List. April 17. Imports from Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela of meat preparations, fish and crustaceans, fuels, min- erals, chemical products, plastic materials, wood and wood products, manufactured goods made of stone, common metals, and electrical machines and apparatuses were included in the Prior License List. May 14. Imports from Peru included in the Prior Import License List (on April 17) were restored to their normal treatment under the program of liberalization of the Cartegena Agreement. May 26. Gasoline motors and mechanical apparatuses were included in the Prior Import License List. Tractors, agricultural machines, apparatuses for the preparation of soil, and electrical machines were included in the Free Import List. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 10. Imports of sulfuric acid, liquid ammonia, and permanganate of potassium were made subject to prior approval by the National Council on Narcotics. July 10. Imports of hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, liquid ammonia, e thyl alcohol, and acetone were made subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Health. Payments for Invisibles February 5. The advance exchange license deposit requirement was abolished for travel abroad. March 19. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic was authorized to grant exchange licenses for travel abroad for the following amounts: (1) ordinary travelers, up to US$180 per day and a maximum of US$3,000 per year; and (2) special travelers, up to US$250 per day and a maximum of US$12,500 per year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 8. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$400.00 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.70 per pound. January 29. The m in imum surrender price for exports of coffee was set at US$350.00 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.37 per pound. February 5. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to extend for up to one month the period during which exports of coffee must be effected by exporters who have already sold their foreign exchange to the Bank. February 19. The maximum period for the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds from noncoffee exports was set at 6 months from the date of approval of the export registration, with the following exceptions: (1) the max- imum period for the proceeds from exports of capital goods is 2 years; (2) the maximum period for the proceeds from exports of books, magazines, and similar printed materials is 18 months; (3) the maximum period for the proceeds from exports of coal and nickel is 6 months for 90 percent of the value stated on the registration; and (4) INCOMEX was authorized to extend the maximum period for all noncoffee exports under certain conditions. February 25. The Certificados de Reembolso Tributario (CERT) system was amended to consist of three basic rates, as follows: (1) 5 percent applies to tea, pepper, cloves, antibiotics, salt, most cemen t, various metal- containing minerals, various inorganic chemicals, soap and detergents, and most auto parts; (2) 9 percent applies to various oils and fats, processed canned meats, sugar, gray (Portland) cemen t, carbon black, several inorganic chemicals, gels, leather sk ins, wool and other fine fiber textiles, ceramics, ships, and brushes; and (3) 14 percent applies to some spices, rice, sesame seeds, grass seeds, confectionary w i thout cocoa, tobacco, pr in ted material, short fiber cotton, carpets, some textile fibers, footwear, some machine tools, most motors and capital equ ipmen t, fu rn i tu re, and combs; previously, the rates ranged be- tween 5 percent and 35 percent. March 5. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$370.00 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.50 per pound. COLOMBIA April 2. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$360.00 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.43 per pound. May 9. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$350.00 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.36 per pound. June 25. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$271.33 per 70 kg. bag, or US$1.85 per pound. September 3. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$294.43 per 70 kg. bag, or US$2.00 per pound. December 15. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was set at US$232.83 per 70 kg. bag, or US$1.60 per pound. Capital January 29. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic was authorized to grant exchange licenses for advance payments of external debt referred to in Article 139 of Decree 444 of 1967. February 19. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic was authorized to grant exchange licenses to credit establishments for the purpose of acquiring foreign exchange to increase their position in foreign exchange. The amount of foreign exchange for this purpose was limited to not more than 3 percent of the external liabilities of the institution. March 19. The term for utilizing the system for repaying private external debt authorized by Monetary Board Resolution 33 of 1984 was extended to May 31, 1986. May 28. The term for utilizing the system for repaying private external debt authorized by Monetary Board Resolution 33 of 1984 was extended to July 31, 1986. Gold May 28. The price of gold paid by the Bank of the Republic for internal purchases would be adjusted on a daily basis. The actual price on May 28 of Col$74,688.10 per troy ounce would be adjusted in accordance with the variation in the price of gold in London and Zurich plus 10 percent of the variation in the rate on the exchange certificate. This pricing mechanism would be used until the daily purchase price of gold equaled or fell below the price of May 27, 1986, less 6 percentage points. Once this minimum price was reached, the daily purchase price of gold by the Bank of the Republic would equal the purchase price on May 27, 1986, less 6 percentage points. .August 27. The price of gold paid by the Bank of the Republic for internal purchases would equal the average dollar price in Zurich and London on the preceding trading day multiplied by the exchange rate of the Colombian peso relative to the U .S. dollar of that day. If the dollar price of gold in London and Zurich varied by more than 10 percent, the Bank of the Republic would use the purchase price of the previous day. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies' are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Comoros. The Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct inves tmen t, and all outward inves tmen ts. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole commer- cial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate- General of Economic Affairs in the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. 'Currencies quoted on the Paris official ma rke t: Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, F inn ish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 166 Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are max imum allocations, such approvals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries may take out the equivalent of CF 125,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The max imum that may be allocated in bank notes is CF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, traveler's checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of Comoros upon the request of the au- thorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surren- dered within one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries normally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all COMOROS outward inves tmen t; these controls relate to the trans- actions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of those countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Con- golese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office, 0.50 percent; these commis- sions are subject to a m in imum of CFAF 100. A com- mission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, how- ever, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Re- lations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange trans- actions must be effected through authorized banks or the 'The CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea. 168 Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external pay- ments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require prior authorization. An indicative annual import program distinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) EC countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. All imports under this program require licenses. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an author- ized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insurance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congo- lese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Ac- count countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Resi- dents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authorization, but most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office National de Commercialisation des Pro- duits Agricoles) and by the National Marketing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally w i th in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, though ex post declarations are re- quired. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo3 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertis- ing, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. Including those invo lv ing the transfer, between nonresidents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authorization is obtained from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign invest- ments. The Code provides for four categories of prefer- ential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BE AC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Costa Rica follows a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate is adjusted from time to time, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading partners and balance of pay- ments developments. All transactions, with the exception of allowance for studies abroad (see below), take place at the unified exchange rate. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling banking rates were G 58.50 and G 59.25 per US$1, respectively. The official exchange rate of G 20.00 = US$1 is used exclusively for granting foreign exchange to students in foreign countries who registered with the Central Bank prior to 1981. The spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is legally set at G 0.75. Purchases and sales of other Central American currencies are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective countries. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and certain private banks authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Beginning from May 20, 1985, settlements in respect of all trade with Central American countries are required to be made in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial operations, services, and capital may be made in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central Amer- ican Clearing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import payments may be made freely, subject to submission of evidence of prior registration (see below), except for goods origi- nating in the Central American Common Market (CACM) countries or Panama. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports valued at over US$500 must be registered with the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier, unless the goods originate in CACM countries or Panama. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition to any applicable customs du ty, the follow- ing taxes are levied on imports: (1) a stamp tax of 3 percent of the customs du ty; (2) a sales tax of 10 percent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are ex- empt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates of 10 percent, 12 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent, depending on the considered degree of essentiality. In addition, other levies are imposed as follows: (1) for inputs, if nominal protection (ad valorem tax plus 3 percent pursuant to Law No. 6966) is less than 10 percent, a surcharge is applied until the 10 percent level is reached; (2) for capital goods, if nominal protection is less than 20 percent, a surcharge is applied until the 20 percent level is reached. The two foregoing provisions, in effect since June 11, 1986, also provide for surcharges of 15 percent on luxury goods and 3.5 percent on nonluxury goods.1 For goods originating in Central America, the surcharge is 2 percent, provided that the surcharge on such goods from the rest of the world is equal to or greater than 2 percent. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transportation, trucks and other work vehicles, ambulances and hearses, simple off- road passenger vehicles, and chassis with single or dual cab, are exempt from the surcharge. Minibuses with a displacement of up to 1,250 cubic centimeters are subject to a surcharge of 10 percent, and those with greater displacement are subject to a surcharge of 100 percent. Other vehicles with displacements of under 1,300 cubic centimeters are exempt from the surcharge, but those with a larger displacement are subject to a surcharge of 150 percent. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent and 10 percent, re- spectively, are levied on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Costa Rican nationals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, sea, or land must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to US$10; Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only G 6, provided their passport states that !The surcharges on consumer goods were eliminated on January 1, 1987. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all the above payments, except for dependents of diplomatic parents, who pay only the 0 6 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing in the unified market may sell foreign exchange —without prior authorization of the Central Bank —in the following amounts: (1) for foreign travel, a limit of US$100 a day up to a maximum of US$800 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commercial banks are authorized to sell the equivalent of this amount in the currency of a Central American country to travelers to Central American coun- tries other than Panama); (2) for family remittances, up to US$500 a month a person to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (3) for registered students, a maximum of US$500 a month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance, upon presentation of docu- ments. Remittances to students pursuing higher education abroad (other than those mentioned in Exchange Arrange- ment, above) are not eligible in the interbank market. Subject to approval by the Central Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justified by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior authorization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for the servicing of private foreign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the banking system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases. Exporters of nontraditional commodities to markets out- side Central America are entitled to receive tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) for 15 percent of the f.o.b. value in the case of exports to the United States and Puerto Rico, and for 15 or 20 percent for destinations outside Central America. In addition, exporters of nontraditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 4-10 percent of the increase in the f .o .b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; the certifi- cates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. Exports to Nicaragua must be on the basis of advance payment in U.S. dollars, barter arrangement, or letters of credit confirmed by a major international bank. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as armaments, muni- tions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of 172 gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock); and coffee (from the Coffee Office); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The exchange proceeds from coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, bovine cattle, and other perishable items must be surrendered within 30 days of shipment; within 90 days of shipment for exports of semiperishable goods; and within 180 days of shipment for other industrial products, except for capital goods which by decision of the Central Bank of Costa Rica may be granted periods of up to 360 days. Foreign-owned banana companies that have con- tracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allow- ance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American Area and Panama; tradi- tional exports do pay tax, in some cases graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and nonresidents may be made, subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Capital received by the private sector may be registered at the Central Bank of Costa Rica, provided that it meets various requirements, including the require- ments that (1) the project financed with the funds has (or will eventually have), directly or indirectly, a positive effect on Costa Rica's balance of payments; (2) the amount of the capital is not less than US$5,000; and (3) the individual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The registration guarantees the individual that the Central Bank will sell to him the exchange required to service the debt at the exchange rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. The National Budget Authority2 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Gov- ernment, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with 2Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, and the President of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA agent banks in the form of specified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such fund s, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and juridical persons may negotiate free ly, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national ar- chaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments June 11. The system of temporary import surcharges was amended. September 1. In accordance with the amendment of the system of temporary import surcharges, the surcharge on luxury goods was reduced from 30 percent to 15 percent, and that on nonluxury goods, from 7.5 percent to 3.5 percent. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), and of 2.50 per mill on transfers to countries outside the WAMU .2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau- !The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 174 ritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior au- thorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Under a decree that came into force on January 1, 1982, all imports are classified into four categories, as follows: (1) prohib- ited imports (e.g., wheat flour, and used garments); (2) import items (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents) for which import licenses are obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 25,000, f .o .b .; (3) import items requiring a declaration of intent to import; and (4) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import; in the last two cases, (3) and (4), the requirements apply only to individual trans- actions exceeding CFAF 100,000, f.o.b. As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. Imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid or a government-to-government contract. All other imports may be made freely from any country; however, as mentioned above, when valued f.o.b. at CFAF 100,000 or more, they are subject to the submission of a declaration of intent to import or to prior authorization, and when the f .o .b. value exceeds CFAF 1.5 million or more, they are subject to mandatory preshipment inspection by international agencies to control their price, quantity, and quality. Tariffs have been raised with a view to harmo- nizing effective protection of local production; in the case of some goods, quotas have been replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to decline progressively during a five-year period. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Economic Commun i ty of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharge. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value also must be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of paymen t, if the commodities have already been imported. Effective June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import paymen ts must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required down payment is made. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an au- thorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for imports in eligible cases must not extend beyond one month for certain clearly specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad free ly, at any time, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Cote d'lvoire must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote d'lvoire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. COTE D'lVOIRE Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Cote d'lvoire. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural com- modities, however, require the issuance of an export license by the Directorate of External Trade. An export premium is applied on the basis of the domestic value added in locally manufactured products. Export taxes are waived for products receiving the prem ium, and products covered by taxation agreements under the WAEC are not eligible for the premium. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying country, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon en try. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct inves tmen t, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Cote d'lvoire companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cote d'lvoire Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are main- tained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Cote d'lvoire,4 are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of inves tmen ts abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of inves tmen ts, whether direct investments or not, in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Cote d'lvoire investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cote d'lvoire of foreign companies. finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or by approved international trading houses to finance international merchanting trans- actions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repay- ment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires au- thorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the inves tment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic invest- ments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for inves tment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d' Ivoire. In addition, all such investments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the inves tment sector or area, from cor- porate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the third to last year of the exemption period, and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the second to last year of the exemption period, 50 percent in the penultimate year, and 25 percent in the last year of the exemption period. Imports of intermediate goods or raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate of the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the currencies of the main trading partners. On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.5112 and £C 0.5120, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound ster- ling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers (banks) facilities for for- ward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six mon ths, in respect of trade and tourist transactions only. Rates for longer periods are available for exports and tourism on request. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency ;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an inves tment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External Ac- counts and Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited for paymen ts to residents and nonresidents, for remit- !Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs (commercial), Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, F inn ish markkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyp rus pound. tances abroad, for transfers to other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts, and for payments in cash in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cy- prus that are accorded nonresident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain External Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their paymen ts in Cyprus. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested is freely transferable to the nonresident beneficiary or it may be credited to an External Account or Foreign Currency Account. In ad- dition to income, the principal released in each such case annually for transfer outside Cyprus may not exceed £C 5,000. Funds can also be released from Blocked Accounts to meet reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children, reasonable living expenses of the account holder while visiting Cyprus, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, and for other authorized purposes. Imports and Import Payments Imports of fresh f ru i ts, fresh vegetables, and fresh meat are prohibited. Most other imports are free of licensing requirements. Only imports of certain commodities re- quire an import license. Such commodities include goods produced or manufactured locally, as well as all machin- ery, plant and equipment, spare parts and accessories. The Minister of Commerce and Indus try may take measures whenever required to regulate the importation of goods for the encouragement of local production and manufac ture. Exchange is allocated to pay for imports freely and without restriction through authorized banks, provided that documentary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance paymen ts before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 500. Payments for imports requiring a license are expected to be made within the time limits specified on the license. An import surcharge of 6 percent (3.9 percent for imports from EC countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tuff, Pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, but approval for certain types of paymen ts has been delegated to authorized banks. Profits, d iv idends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad w i thout limitation, after payment 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after de- duction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other ins t i tu t ions of higher education, and certain lower-level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the s tuden t. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, Yugoslavia, and COMECON countries, the maximum yearly allowance for living ex- penses is £C 1,800; for Canada and the United States, £C 4,400; Austria, the Benelux countries, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United King- dom, £C 3,000; and for all other countries, £C 2,600. There is no limit for the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is £C 450 a person a year. The allowance for business travel is not fixed, but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. For medical treatment abroad, the amount is unlimited but based on actual expenses. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that departing residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Foreign currency notes equivalent to US$1,000 need not be declared. In addition, authorized banks may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents. Furthermore, authorized banks are permit- ted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident em- ployees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external fund s. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to control by the respective Marketing Boards, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Com- mission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds £C 100, to ensure the repatriation of the sales proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature are not normally permitted. Applications for direct inves tment abroad by residents are approved only in cases where the proposed 178 investments will promote exports of goods and services and provided the amount required is small. Inves tmen ts in Cyprus by nonresidents require prior approval of the Central Bank. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, introduction of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the national economy. Foreign direct invest- ment is normally permitted in selected fields of production such as export-oriented industries and new products. Yearly profits and proceeds from the liquidation of ap- proved foreign inves tmen ts may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any due charges and taxes. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immovable property for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable outside Cyprus up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the property; the balance, if any, is transfer- able at the yearly rate of £C 5,000. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad immediately up to £C 5,000; any excess amount is de- posited in a Blocked Account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 per year. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate is limited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 per year. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In prin- ciple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1986 Payments for Invisibles October 11. Resident employees of offshore companies were allowed to carry with them abroad any amount of foreign exchange debited from the external or foreign currency account of the offshore enterprise. December 29. The living allowance for students study- ing in Austria, the Bene lux countries, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Switzerland was increased to £C 3,000 per academic year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Den- mark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs (European Currency Units). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Denmark (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.543 378.76 116.32 336.16 1,045.11 0.5620 17.727 362.09 111.20 321.36 999.13 0.4985 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the sys tem, the Danish central bank intervenes to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. Middle rates for 20 foreign currencies (including the ECU) are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1986 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DKr 7.3425 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage, both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place w i th in two banking days; transactions that mature in three banking days or more are defined as forward transactions. Spot transactions in all currencies, including Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies may be concluded freely with domestic and foreign banks. For- ward transactions that involve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than three years. Forward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, ECUs, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. of market forces. Forward transactions that involve res- ident and nonresident purchases of foreign currencies against sales of Danish kroner must cover contractual paymen ts, the payments covered being due not more than three years from the date of the forward contract. There are no restrictions on forward transactions that involve resident and nonresident purchases of Danish kroner against sales of foreign currencies, other than the three- year limit on maturity. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, that is, most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to individual transactions and transfers of DKr 40,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 40,000 may, in any event, be made without delivery of forms. Permission, when required, for foreign direct inves tmen ts in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Indus try. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Indus try, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Krone Accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for institutions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresident does not exceed DKr 300,000; any amount in excess of DKr 300,000 must be transferred abroad within three days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for nonresidents, provided they are credited only with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain inves tmen ts in Denmark and some other fund s. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 100,000 available to each 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts, and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of export-import licenses has now been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from member countries of the EC are alcoholic beverages and unwrought and semimanufac- tured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state- trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., or Viet Nam. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may as a general rule be made freely within five years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if a discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity with normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the effected date of performance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for invisibles may be made freely. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the transfer of funds to an account abroad kept by a person of foreign nationality who has not resided in Denmark for more than seven years, provided that the balance of the account does not exceed DKr 200,000. Foreign ex- change for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 40,000. Travelers may take out freely DKr 40,000 in Danish bank notes and coin, and any amount in foreign bank 180 notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may, in addition, export amounts of up to DKr 50,000 or any such larger amount in Danish kroner and foreign exchange that they can substantiate as having been imported upon entry into Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EC. Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses for exports to other destinations are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark with- out undue delay unless the National Bank permits other- wise. However, such amounts collected abroad may be kept in an account with a foreign bank for a maximum period of 30 days; otherwise, foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a maximum period of three months. Nearly all exports of goods and services to the Republic of South Africa and Namibia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank notes and coin, foreign bank notes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be re- stricted. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Indus try are based on EC directives on capital movements and the OECD Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repurchase any Danish securities. Residents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 2 million in a calendar year to subsidiary companies (direct investments of loan capital) or, in the case of resident persons, DKr 500,000 in a calendar year to a member of the resident's family. Contributions from a parent enterprise to a branch are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Residents may buy foreign shares as portfolio investments, provided that these are listed on the stock exchange or traded in the NASDAQ System (National Association of Securities Dealers Au- tomated Quotations System) in the United States. Resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents may only subscribe to or purchase foreign bonds with an original maturity exceeding two years that are listed on a stock exchange. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash. The Central Bank applies a liberal procedure to the approval of residents' purchases of unlisted foreign se- curities. Residents may enter into forward transactions and options in securities with nonresidents. Actual deliv- ery of the security requires that the buyer is allowed to acquire the security. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in connection with most direct investments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 10 million a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital.2 Private acquisition of real estate for noncom- mercial purposes and expenses related to building and construction work on such property can be made without limitations. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obli- gations as a member of the EC and the OECD. Authorized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the financing of paymen ts to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided that the loan is normally granted directly to the foreign purchaser; in those cases where the National Bank 's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permis- sion from the National Bank is required for certain other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 100,000 for each person at the time of departure. The remaining liquid assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct inves tment in the form of equity capital may be made without prior license if the inves tment does not increase total direct foreign inves tment in the enter- prise concerned by more than DKr 10 million in each calendar year. However, prior license is always required if the inves tment is under taken by a foreign firm in which a resident directly or indirectly owns an interest repre- senting a direct inves tmen t. Direct inves tmen ts require notification to the National Bank if they are made without a prior license. A contribution from a parent company to a branch is treated as direct investment of equity capital. Other direct inves tmen ts by nonresidents require permis- sion from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the EC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark normally requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice; 2A license is requ i red, however, for inve s tmen ts in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital inves tmen ts or financing. DENMARK permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license. Non- residents may freely purchase or subscribe to all types of Danish shares, including shares of joint stock and private companies; they may also acquire private mort- gage deeds with a residual maturity of five years or more. Residents may as a general rule take up loans for up to five years from nonresidents to finance imports of commodities and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services, provided that the credits are in conformity with normal commercial practice and that the maturity of the loans does not exceed the borrowers' credits to nonresidents in connection with exports of goods and services. Most business enterprises may bor- row abroad without restriction, provided that the maturity is at least one year. Residents may take up loans of up to DKr 500,000 in a calendar year from the borrower's family members. Foreign borrowing by municipalities and public utility companies may in certain cases be subject to control by the appropriate department of the Governmen t. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of inves tmen ts and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents, other than new emigrants, are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original inves tment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in full more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual paymen ts above DKr 40,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval from the National Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lation, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports and exports of Danish and foreign securities are permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, in most cases, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents. Authorized foreign exchange dealers' commercial net balances in accounts with foreign countries may be negative to the ex tent of an amount equal to the loans that the authorized dealer has granted to residents in foreign currency in conformity with the exchange control regulations and, for the purpose of financing Denmark's foreign trade, within a limit of DKr 3 million; for banks and savings banks, the limit is up to 5 percent of net worth (up to 10 percent of net worth allowed under certain conditions). A positive net commercial foreign position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 4. The intervention limits of the Danish krone within the EMS were redefined as follows with respect to the Irish pound: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Irish pounds Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 1,045.11 999.13 Imports and Import Payments December 15. Nearly all trade in goods and services with the Republic of South Africa and Namibia, except exports of medicine, was banned. The legislation also banned Danish-owned ships from carrying oil and oil products to the Republic of South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds December 15. Nearly all trade in goods and services with the Republic of South Africa and Namibia, except exports of medicine, was banned. The legislation also banned Danish-owned ships from carrying oil and oil products to the Republic of South Africa. DENMARK DKr 2 million or, for banks and savings banks, 15 percent of the capital and reserves, whichever is larger. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coin in Denmark; they may also import gold coin. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial and dental users. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at a rate of 22 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coin. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 7. The intervention limits of the Danish krone within the EMS were redefined as follows: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche marks 100 French francs 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 18.543 378.76 116.32 ,135.99 0.5620 336.16 17.727 362.09 111.20 1,086.01 0.4985 321.36 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies' are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in inter- national markets. The posted rates are subject to com- mission charges of 1.5-6.0 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. There is a fixed commission of about DF 500 (or US$3.00) for transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On September 19, 1980 Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Deposits in U.S. dollars constitute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti, but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes (the general consumption tax). The rate of the general consumption tax is 26 percent for luxury goods and 23 percent for all other goods. A supplementary surtax of 5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports originating from countries outside the EC, food, period- icals, and photographic film for noncommercial use. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, non- carbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. A supplementary surtax of 25 percent applies to imported cars and audiovisual equipment .2 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions on exports, with the exception of the prohibition on exports of live animals. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for or pro- ceeds from invisibles, except that paymen ts must not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to salaries paid to individuals who are not residents of Djibouti for professional purposes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but paymen ts may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Under the In- ves tment Code of June 5, 1975, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic ac- tivities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 'Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2This tax was abolished on January 1, 1987. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, re- spectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There is a 1.5 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange for invisible trade transactions involving more than EC$100. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13,1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance and applies to all countries outside the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The M in is try of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories participating in the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 2 must be made in the currency of the CARICOM coun try concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency .3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the M in is try of Finance; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign na- tionals not ordinarily resident in Dominica. The accounts can only be credited with foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Payments from these accounts require no approval, but transactions are subject to the foreign exchange sales tax. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are proh ib i ted. Most other goods are imported under open general license, but indi- 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. 184 vidual licences are required for manufac tures or items which compete with regionally available products. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a bank of documen tary evidence of pur- chase. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior ap- proval by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control ap- proval. However, commercial banks have been delegated with authority to sell foreign currency to local residents as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$50, subject to a limit of EC$250 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by ECCB, EC$2,500, subject to a max imum of two trips in any 12-month period, and upon presentation of travel documen ts; (3) for bona fide business travelers, EC$350 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total does not exceed EC$10,500 in any 12-month period, and upon presentation of travel documents; and (4) for overseas travel for medical t rea tmen t, EC$350 a day up to a max imum of EC$20,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of a medical certificate stating that the jou rney is necessary and upon presentation of travel documen ts. Amoun ts in excess of specified limits may be obtained with approval from the M in is t ry of Finance. Exchange control approval will normally be given for the payment of fees and subscriptions to recognized ins t i tu t ions and for such other educational items as news- papers, upon presentation of the invoice. Foreign currency may also be bought to meet educational expenses, including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each aca- demic year. Outward remittances of cash gifts are allowed up to EC$ 1,000 a year to each recipient. Profits may be remitted overseas in fu l l, provided that the Comptroller of Inland Revenue has prior knowledge of the transfer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an Eastern Caribbean Central Bank currency account is manda tory, except where the exporter has a foreign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency account. There is no restriction on importation of bank notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of capital or prof i ts require ex- change control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is not normally permitted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which normally is granted, subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank area may transfer up to EC$20,000 (for a husband, wife, and children under 18 years) from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Approval from the Ministry of Finance may be granted in special cases for remittance of amoun ts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such invest- ment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the inves tmen t. The approval of the M in is try of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dom- inica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. DOMINICA Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quantities of gold may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July L The foreign exchange levy was reduced from 2!/2 percent to l!/2 percent. Imports and Import Payments July 1. Taxes on imports of petroleum and motor vehicles were increased. Exports and Export Proceeds July I. Export taxes and stamp taxes on export sales were abolished. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Domin- ican Peso. All foreign exchange operations, with the exception of those for which the peso counterpart had already been deposited with the Central Bank by Janu- ary 23, 1985 or those that had been otherwise authorized by the Monetary Board as of this date, take place at the transaction-weighted average market-determined buy ing and selling rates of the last available survey published daily by the Central Bank (usually with a lag not exceeding two days). All other transactions not channeled through the Central Bank take place at the free market rate of the day. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the Dominican peso in terms of the U .S. dollar, as published by the Central Bank, were RD$3.06 = US$1 andRD$3 .07 - US$1, respectively. A small fund of US$10 million created in 1984 for the importation of generic medicines continues to be admin- istered at a rate of RD$2.00 = US$1.00; at the end of 1986 less than US$3,000 was left in this fund. Foreign exchange is sold through the Reserve Bank and the commercial banks at a preferential exchange rate of RD$2.96 per US$1 for public sector imports, external debt service, and the financing of certain private sector imports (mainly foods tuffs, and subject to approval on a case-by-case basis).1 Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank and other banks carry a commission of Vn of 1 percent.2 Commercial banks charge their customers commissions of 1A of 1 percent (buying) and l/2 of 1 percent (selling); an additional 1 percent commission is levied on payments by letter of credit. Foreign Currency Accounts Under a Monetary Board resolution of August 24, 1982, commercial banks are authorized to open two types of foreign exchange accounts for their clients.3 One of these is a noninterest-bearing U.S. dollar account, from which funds can be drawn to make payments for current trans- actions approved by the Central Bank. The other type of account yields interest at a rate announced periodically by the Central Bank but not more than 1 percentage point below the federal funds rate in the United States; such an account is subject to a m in imum deposit requirement of US$25,000. Both types of accounts are subject to a 100 percent reserve requirement. Beginning in mid- November 1983, exchange banks have been established and empowered to purchase and sell foreign exchange. lThe preferential exchange rate was eliminated on February 20, 1987. 2E f fec t ive January 19, 1987, the Central Bank began to levy a comm iss ion of 2 percent on foreign exchange transactions invo lv ing merchandise exports and imports. 3Since the end of 1971, interested natural and ju r id ical persons could be authorized directly by the Monetary Board to open accounts denom- inated in U.S. dollars in the Dominican Repub l ic's banking system. Balances in such accounts could be used free ly to make paymen ts abroad. 186 Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. Com- mercial banks are permitted to freely transact in foreign exchange. Payments abroad are subject to documentation and limited to transactions via commercial banks. At the end of 1985, there were 12 commercial banks and 86 exchange banks operating in the foreign exchange market in the Dominican Republic. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import paymen ts in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obliga- tions are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for paymen ts to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments In principle, all import paymen ts can be made with foreign exchange purchased in the free market. Import settlements against collection or by draft must be denom- inated in U .S. dollars. The importation of automobiles and heavy machinery is prohibited. In principle, "nominal du ty rates" range from a mini- mum of 40 percent to almost 900 percent for imports of malted beverages. Most of the nominal du ty rates at the three- and four-digit level of the tariff schedule range between 40 percent and 75 percent. A number of imports that were exempted from payment of these nominal duties were brought into the regular import tariff on Septem- ber 6, 1986. An internal consumption tax of 20 percent ad valorem and a 4 percent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges are applied on all imports subject to the m in imum du ty of 20 percent, with the exception of agricultural and industrial machinery and inpu ts for the manufacture of agrochemical products, which are subject to a 5 percent du ty. Payments for Invisibles All categories of invisible paymen ts, with the exception of profit remittances and royalty paymen ts, may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documen- tation requirements. Annual profit remittances cannot exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional inves tment plus reinvestment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution minus repatriation, duly registered in the Foreign De- partment of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, including some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, products imported under specified bilateral trade agreements are prohibited to be exported under the terms of such agreements. A number of products (such as sugar, molasses, coffee, and cocoa) are subject to prior authorization. Export licenses, issued by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX), are required for all products. On June 17, 1986 the surcharge on traditional exports, which had been set at 18 percent on January 19, 1986, was exempted for all goods leaving the country after June 18, 1986. With specified exceptions, exporters mus t, within two working days of receiving paymen ts, surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the value of their exports. For the purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices established by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and ferronickel exports are exempted from the exchange surrender re- quirements and are required to convert only the foreign exchange needed by them to cover local costs and taxes. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario—CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o .b. or c.i.f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 percent when exports contain a high degree of domestic agricul- tural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. However, only a limited number of CATs have been issued. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. Nontraditional exports are entitled to a refund of a percentage of the import duties paid on raw materials or component parts used in the manufacture of goods sub- sequently exported; the refund is 90 percent on exports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent on exports containing domestic inpu ts, and 100 percent on exports produced in the industrial free trade zone.4 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment w i thout authorization by the Central Bank. 4Nontraditional exporters who qualify under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69 are also fu l ly exempted from payment of import duties. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles With certain exceptions, such as those relating to tourism and remittances of Dominicans living abroad, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. Proceeds originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards are also subject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to ex- ports. The import of Dominican bank notes and coin is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. However, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19, 1978, which created a Directorate of Foreign Inves tment to approve direct inves tment requests. Such investments must be registered with the Central Bank. Beginning from May 1984, outward remittances related to inves tmen ts are made freely through the banks, subject to prior registration with the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional authorization. Ac- cording to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board au- thorization. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to foreign borrowing for export, import substitution, and social projects such as housing and education. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than 3 percent. There are also m in imum maturity requirements according to the type of financing. Beginning from January 23, 1985, the Central Bank provides foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the market rate; the servicing of private external debt is effected through the market. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that Dominican residents can purchase in the free market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement September 4. The Monetary Board initiated a program under which foreign exchange would be sold through the 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Reserve Bank at a preferential exchange rate of RD$2.96 per US$1 for public sector imports, external debt service, and the financing of certain private sector imports (mainly foodstuffs, subject to approval on a case-by-case basis). October 22. The program sales of foreign exchange at the preferential rate of RD$2.96 per US$1 to finance certain imports (introduced on September 4) was extended to commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments May 24. Imports of w ine, champagne, cider, sherry, and other grape-related spirits were banned. July 7. The ban on importation of automobiles and heavy machinery was lifted. July 11. The ban on importation of automobiles and heavy machinery was reintroduced. July 12. The importation of supplies and equ ipment used in the production of electricity was banned. September 6. Import taxes or fees were reinstated for all goods (including equipment and raw materials) that were previously exempted (partially or totally) and did not enter the country under the provisions of the 1959 trade law. October 1. The prohibition of imports of wine, cham- pagne, cider, sherry, and other grape-related spirits was lifted. December 18. A regulation governing the registration of foreign currency loans stipulated a m in imum import financing term of 180 days. The minimum import financing terms for capital goods was set at five years, preferably in the form of suppliers' credits. Exports and Export Proceeds January 19. The export surcharge on traditional mer- chandise exports and some services (except tourism) was reduced from 36 percent to 18 percent, and its applica- bility was extended through December 31, 1986. The 5 percent export surcharge on nontraditional exports was eliminated. June 17. Export surcharges on all exports realized after June 18, 1986 were eliminated. October 22. The period for exporters to become current on their surrender requirements was extended to Decem- ber 31, 1986. December 18. The Monetary Board announced a fu r ther 45-day period for exporters to become current on their surrender requ iremen ts beginning January 1, 1987. Proceeds from Invisibles August 8. The surrender requ iremen ts applicable to exports of goods and services were extended to foreign exchange proceeds originating from the use by foreigners of international credit cards. Capital October 22. Limitations on the commercial banks' net foreign exchange position were removed, bringing the regulations applicable to foreign exchange trading by commercial banks into line with those for exchange houses. December 18. The Monetary Board published regula- tions governing the registration of loans in foreign cur- rency, permitting only borrowers with registered obliga- tions to purchase foreign exchange for debt service. Registration, which is subject to approval by the Monetary Board, established the following order of priority for approval of external loans: first, to finance the production of goods and services for export; second, to finance projects of social importance; and th i rd, for import sub- stitution. Interest rates on loans in foreign currency must not exceed those preva i l ing in international financial markets. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. At present, there are three exchange rates: the official rate of S/. 95 per US$1, which is used for the accounting purposes of the Central Bank only; the intervention market rate of the Central Bank; and the free market rate. On August 11, 1986 the decision was taken to transfer private sector transactions to the free market and to adjust the intervention rate of the Central Bank regu- larly, so as to maintain a narrow spread between the two rates. On August 19, 1986 the authorities started moving the intervention rate closer to the free market rate; since October 1986, the spread between the two rates has been less than 2 percent. On December 31, 1986 the exchange rate averaged S/. 146.50 per US$1 in the intervention market of the Central Bank, and S/. 147.75 per US$1 in the free market. Beginning August 12, 1986 the Central Bank is autho- rized to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds relating to the following transactions in the intervention market: exports of crude oil and petroleum products; interest earned on international reserves; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disbursements; foreign exchange balances (when positive) on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank; passenger airport taxes; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. From the same date, the Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange relating to payments of the following operations in the intervention market: imports and purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amortization in foreign currency of the public sector; transfer of surpluses of foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange receipts from exports for which permits were granted before August 12, 1986 are allowed to be sold, on a transitional basis, in the intervention market of the Central Bank. Also, on a transitional basis, the following payments are allowed to be made in the intervention market: imports for which permits were granted before August 12, 1986; servicing of the private sector external debt for which the foreign exchange was sold to the Central Bank prior to August 12, 1986; profit remittances accruing from foreign investments for which the foreign currency was sold to the Central Bank before August 12, 1986; and expenses incurred abroad by stu- dents and handicapped persons for which a contract was approved by the Central Bank prior to August 12, 1986. On August 27, 1986 a regulation of the Monetary Board postponed, for a two-year period, payment of the differ- ence between the exchange rate of S/. 110 and the rate of the U.S. dollar or its equivalent in other foreign currencies quoted at the time of payment for purposes of payment of installments by importers whose permits had been granted by August 11, 1986. This line of credit is intermediated through the commercial banks. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, and Poland take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of priority goods (Group I "Special"), essential goods (Group A), and semiessential goods (Group B); and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization from govern- ment ministries or agencies, although in the course of 1986 this requirement was eliminated for a considerable number of imports. With specified exceptions, prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed music may be imported with or without prior import licenses; private sector transactions are effected without limitation through the free private market at the rate obtained on that market. These imports are subject to payment of the applicable taxes and charges regardless of their purpose. Medicines and spare parts for machinery and auto- motive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petroleum Cor- poration may import supplies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business during emergency situations without obtaining a prior import license. A few goods may be imported only from member countries of the LAIA, and some only from Paraguay. With these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that: the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid; prior ministerial authorization (where applicable) has been obtained; and a certificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. All mer- 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR chandise imports may be inspected by international agen- cies prior to shipping to ensure conformance with the import permit. Upon arrival of the merchandise, the importer must settle up to 20 percent of total f.o.b. value in cash for imports for which the Central Bank has provided foreign currency. All private sector imports are subject to a tax of 10 percent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all public sector imports are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c.i.f. value. With certain exemptions, imports on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Only public sector paymen ts for invisibles are handled in the intervention market including interest on public debt. Other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrangement for the refinancing of private external debt involves different implicit exchange rates arising from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates are applicable to the refi- nancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the domestic financial system or directly by the private sector, and to payment of interest on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank before refinancing or sold in the same way at any time if under Resolution No. 1202, or those sold at the free market beginning from July 1, 1982 up to a day prior to short- or long-term financing. With respect to foreign loans to petroleum companies, interest, com- missions, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percent above the interest rates in the creditor country, and annual amor- tization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/. 600 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. All private sector export proceeds must be sold in the free market not later than: (1) 30 days from the date of shipment for exports against cash payment, exports of bananas, coffee beans, cacao beans, prawns in any marketable form, and other unprocessed seafood products; (2) 90 days from the date of each shipment for perishable products appearing on the lists issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integra- tion, and Fisheries, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Stockbreeding, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis or on consignment; (3) 60 days from the date of shipment for the remaining primary products, provided it is shown that the sale was made on 190 an installment basis; and (4) 180 days from the date of shipment for products not mentioned above, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis. However, the Central Bank may extend these periods. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transactions; however, barter transactions require a prior contract. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cacao, and semifinished products of cacao to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports will be made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank, invisible receipts of the public sector, and proceeds from the passenger airport tax, which are transacted at the intervention rate. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). All foreign direct investment in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New investment re- quires the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries. For foreign capital entering Ecuador in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Additionally, investors must present to the Central Bank certification from the appro- priate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The De- partment of Credit and Foreign Investment of the Central Bank of Ecuador must submit a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration and all pertinent documentation. Thereafter, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the request for registration for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans. In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans granted to the Government or to official entities involving the disbursement of foreign exchange must be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Department of the Central Bank; for all other foreign loans, registration is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of short-term suppliers' credits, no special registration procedure is required. Foreign na- tionals are prohibited from owning rural properties and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries does not authorize direct foreign inves tment for the purpose of establishing publicity firms, commercial broadcasting sta- tions, television stations, newspapers, or magazines. Withdrawal of foreign inves tment from Ecuador is allowed five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. The limit on the repatriation of profit remittances is 30 percent a year, or 40 percent for firms that export at least 40 percent of their production. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work, the gold content of which does not represent more than 25 percent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank; gold bars are exempt from import du ty, while the duty on semi worked gold is 40 percent ad valorem; semiworked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 29. The in terven t ion rate of the Central Bank was changed from S/. 95.00 per US$1 to S/. 108.50 per US$1 (buy ing rate). The official rate of S/. 95.00 per US$1 was retained only for internal accounting purposes of the Central Bank. Consequen t ly, all foreign currency pur- chase and sale transactions were henceforth handled by the intervention market. August 11. The requirement that foreign exchange from private sector exports be surrendered to the Central Bank was abolished, and most transactions were transferred to the free market, leaving the exchange rate for such transactions to be determined by market forces. Only the following transactions remained in the intervention mar- ket: exports of crude oil and petroleum derivatives; interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank; freight and insurance costs of public sector imports; foreign debt service of the public sector; and certain other foreign exchange expenditures of the public sector. Also, the Central Bank would continue to sell foreign exchange at the intervention market rate to cover the following transactions: imports for which permits had been obtained before August 12, 1986; service payments on the private external debt for which foreign exchange had been sold to the Central Bank before August 12, 1986; and repatri- ation of capital and dividends on foreign inves tmen t. August 27. A regulation of the Monetary Board post- poned, for a two-year period, payment of the difference between the exchange rate of S/. 110 and the rate of the U.S. dollar or its equ iva lent in other foreign currencies quoted at the time of paymen t, for purposes of payment of installments by importers whose perm i ts had been ECUADOR granted by August 11, 1986. This line of credit is inter- mediated through the commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments January 28. A new import tariff was introduced, and new lists of merchandise imports were drawn up. March 21. A new regulation was introduced whereby importers, in order to obtain import licenses, were re- quired to deposit the corresponding value in sucres of the foreign loans obtained for either 120 days or 180 days for import financing purposes in a non-interest-bearing blocked account at the Central Bank for a period equiv- alent to the maturity of the loan. The value of the loan is to be converted in sucres at the exchange rate prevailing on the intervention market at the time of the deposit, and the Central Bank bears the exchange rate risk. To com- pensate the Central Bank for this risk, a commission was levied equal to 25 percent for imports under List I (Group A), and 30 percent for imports under List I (Group B) and List II. May 7. The requirement of preshipment inspection by the Societe Generate de Surveillance was abolished for certain imports; inter alia, imports with an f.o.b. value of less than US$2,500 were exempted. May 13. Certain types of musical instruments were exempted from import duties. May 20. Imports of certain inpu ts for the shrimp indus t ry were exempted from the exchange risk commission. May 26. Imports of certain types of trucks were exempted from import duties but were made subject to a special quota. May 27. The exchange rate commission was made applicable to credit card transactions. Imports of the following items were exempted from exchange risk com- mission: inputs for the production of exports, including specifically shrimp larvae and seedlings for the export of flowers; and public sector imports. August 11. The requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Agriculture or from the Ministry of Indus try, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries for a number of imports on List I and List II was eliminated. August 11. In connection with payments abroad for public sector imports, a term of 180 days from the date of shipment was established for at least 80 percent of the f.o.b. value. August 11. The requirement to deposit the sucre value of foreign financing of imports at the Central Bank (introduced on March 21; see above) was eliminated. August 27. A regulation of the Monetary Board post- poned, for a two-year period, payment of the difference between the exchange rate of S/. 110 and the rate of the U.S. dollar or its equivalent in other foreign currencies quoted at the time of paymen t, for purposes of payment of installments by importers whose permits had been granted by August 11, 1986. This line of credit is inter- mediated through the commercial banks. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exports and Export Proceeds August 12. All export taxes were eliminated. August 18. Banks were allowed to make forward purchase of foreign exchange from exporters with a maximum maturity of 180 days. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LE1 = US$1.42857. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respec- tively, per US$1. Established rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates for these currencies quoted in New York.1 The established central bank rate applies on the receipts side only to proceeds from exports of pe tro leum, cotton, and rice; Suez Canal dues; SUMED pipeline royalties; and foreign exchange funds for the purpose of covering the local expenditure and related expenses of the oil explo- ration and drilling companies as well as their subcontrac- tors. On the paymen ts side, it applies to settlements for imports of certain essential foods tuffs, insecticides and fertilizers, and specified capital transactions A special exchange rate, equivalent to LE 0.3913 = US$1, is used for transactions under bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th countries that are not members of the International Monetary Fund, as well as for liquidation of accounts related to past bilateral paymen ts agree- men ts .2 A d ifferent rate (LE 0.84 = US$1), also estab- lished by the authorities, applies to transfers by foreign aviation companies relating to operations transacted un t il December 18, 1985. A special rate of LE 1.80 = US$1 applies to expenses of Egyptians traveling abroad on official missions, for medical care, and other specified invisible transactions. Foreign exchange grants from the U .S. aid program are converted at the bank exchange rate for the private sector and at 90 percent of this rate for the public sector. A bank exchange rate is used for transactions that take place through the commercial banks. This rate is applied, on the receipts side, to workers' remittances, tourist receipts, and exports (mainly by the public sector); and, on the payments side, to imports and invisible and capital transactions by the public sector other than those assigned to the Central Bank. The commercial banks may freely utilize 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts within the framework of the foreign exchange budget, but must transfer their outstanding balance of foreign ex- change at the close of business each week to an account at one of the public sector commercial banks to be used in accordance with Central Bank directives. The "bank" exchange rate is set by a committee composed of repre- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2For the period through the end of December 1987, a temporary variable premium resulting in a rate of LE 0.70 = £1 will be applied to visible trade transactions within the framework of the bilateral payments agree- ments with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the U .S .S .R ., as well as for tourist expenditures related to the U .S .S .R. sentatives from the Central Bank, the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade, and the commercial banks. On December 29, 1986 their buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LE 1.3600 and LE 1.3736 per US$1, respectively. In addition, most private sector transactions take place through free accounts held with domestic banks ("own exchange") at a free market exchange rate. Forward cover is available for foreign trade transactions. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget for public sector exchange transactions is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade supervises imports and exports by the public sector. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector entities. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. The Ministry of Industry establishes import quotas for private sector imports of raw materials and capital goods. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries w i th which Egypt does not have bilateral paymen ts agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appro- priate Free Account (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regulations. However, the proceeds from raw cotton exports during the Septem- ber 1986-August 1987 season to all countries must be received in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th countries w i th which Egypt has bi- lateral paymen ts agreements are made according to the terms of these agreements.3 However, paymen ts to such countries for imports and various other purposes not covered by these agreements may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements w i th countries w i th which indemn i ty agreements concerning compensation for na- tionalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, or Free Accounts in Foreign Currency. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are transferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agree- 3On December 31, 1986 Egypt maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sudan, and the U.S.S.R. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT ments concluded with certain countries and Canal Dues Accoun ts, there are three types of accounts: Free Ac- coun ts, D Accoun ts, and Nonconver t ib le Capital Accoun ts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any en t i ty other than the Egyptian Governmen t, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in foreign currency or Egyptian pound s; the latter are freely convertible. Free Accounts in foreign currency may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad, transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bankno tes registered in a customs declaration fo rm, and with the equ iva lent in foreign currencies from f u n ds transferred from a free account in Egyptian pounds and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign bank notes to the owner or others, transfers to free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and for any payment in Egyp t, inc lud ing those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. Free Accounts in Egyptian pounds may be credited with the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers from abroad in convertible currencies or from a free account in foreign currency; with transfers from similar accoun ts; with proceeds of sale to an authorized bank of foreign currencies registered in a customs declaration fo rm; and with proceeds of sale of bank ins t rumen ts and interest on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers abroad in convertible currencies, transfers to other free accounts in foreign currency or transfers to similar accounts, f u n ds w i thdrawn in foreign bank notes on behalf of the owner of the account or others, and funds used to meet local expenditures or the settlements of the value of export goods. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral paymen ts agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the "respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized to the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts may be credited w i th any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the account holder. Accounts held by ind iv idua ls may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accoun ts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for paymen ts to residents for services rendered up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egyp t. 194 Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accounts, which may be opened by both nonres iden ts and res iden ts, residents may hold Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts and Import Ac- counts in Foreign Exchange. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with all or part of the proceeds from certain exports of goods and nonfactor services. Public sector companies may use these funds for their purposes within the provision of the foreign exchange budget or transfer them to other public sector companies within the same sector. Private sector exporters may debit these accounts for visible and invis- ible payments related to their economic activity. Export- ers of onions, garlic, potatoes, peanuts, and citrus fruits are entitled to retain only 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Banks are allowed to pay interest on the balances in retention accounts. With specified excep- tions, unused balances in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts owned by public sector entities must be sur- rendered at the bank exchange rate to the commercial banks one year after the funds have been deposited. This applies to funds originating from the retention of export proceeds. If the balances in the Retention Accounts owned by the public sector entities originate from invisible proceeds, the requirement to surrender the unutilized balances is applied on a monthly basis. Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange may be opened by authorized banks in the name of Egyptian nationals. These accounts may be credited with transfers in con- vertible currencies, transfers from free accounts in foreign exchange or in Egyptian pounds, transfers from another import account in foreign exchange, the equivalent in free currency of any amount of foreign exchange deposited by clients (regardless of the means and the source), and with bank interest. They may be debited for the financing of imports of the private sector on behalf of the account holder or others, transfers abroad to cover invisible transactions related to the activity of the account holder, settlements of obligations related to import transactions effected on behalf of the private sector, and to cover in the form of foreign bank notes and other acceptable means of payment the expenditures of the account holder or others abroad within the limit of US$500 (or its equivalent) a calendar year, provided that the amount drawn is registered on the user's passport and travel ticket. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. A Su- preme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with formulation of a long-term policy for exports and imports, control of the annual export and import plan, and supervision of the execution of the foreign exchange budget. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrangement), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Certain private trade with payments agreement countries is not restricted. Imports by the central government, public authorities, and public sector companies, as well as certain private imports under the scheme for artisans and craftsmen, are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange budget through the Central Bank and the authorized commercial banks. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, transportation, etc.). The annual foreign ex- change budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of each sector decide on the goods to be imported and the entities that are to import them within that quota. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the established rate, with the exception of capital goods imports under suppliers' credits, which are effected at the bank rate, and imports under bilateral payments agreements, which are effected at a special, more appreciated rate. With minor exceptions, imports by the private sector take place through the "own exchange" system. A negative list of 210 items exists, with all commodities not included on the prohibited list being freely imported. Certain goods (e.g., imports financed with bilateral and multilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are exempted from the negative list, and the items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. Before a letter of credit is opened, an importer is required to lodge with an authorized commercial bank an advance import deposit in foreign currency as a percentage of the f.o.b. value for imports, ranging from 15 percent to 50 percent. Imports by companies registered under the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 43 of 1974) are not subject to the advance import requirement. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorization and instructions and up to specific quotas. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from some ex- ports and tourism) in Free Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for invisible payments abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign exchange through the medium of Free Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Only Egyptian nationals and foreigners who have lived in the country for a continuous period of five years can purchase airline tickets under certain conditions (one- way or round trip originating in Egypt) in Egyptian pounds. With this exception, all others must purchase tickets with convertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds converted at the bank exchange rate. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their re- EGYPT maining Egyptian pounds after deducting US$30 for each night spent in Egypt, provided that evidence is produced that Egyptian pounds were obtained at the bank exchange rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohib- ited, and commodities required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be made without license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only, and their proceeds must be repatriated within three months. The proceeds from exports of movies, television pro- grams, and video cassettes must be repatriated within six months. The proceeds from exports of books, newspa- pers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and in any case within a period not exceeding five years from the date of shipment. Proceeds from other exports must be repatriated within six months. The banks are authorized to extend the repatriation period for three additional months, but an extension for a longer period must be granted by the General Directorate for Foreign Exchange. When goods are licensed for export on a consignment basis, the repatriation of export pro- ceeds must be settled as soon as received and in any case within a period not exceeding one year from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports other than cotton and rice may be fully or partially retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds from public sector exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be ob- tained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing foreigners who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that foreign exchange equivalent to the excess value has been exchanged at an authorized bank at the bank exchange rate. The corresponding limit on excess value applied to Egyptian nationals is LE 100 and that for purchases left behind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (provided that they are exported within three months from the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Governmen t, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Within specified limits, receipts from the provision of local hotel, transport, or travel agency services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Public sector entities and public authorities are permitted to retain 10 percent of their receipts from invisibles in Foreign Ex- change Retention Accounts, and in some instances are exempt from the periodic surrender requirements applied to these accounts; authorization to retain more than 10 percent must be approved by the Ministry of Economy. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency. A foreign traveler must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of US$150 at the bank exchange rate in order to obtain an ordinary en try visa (officials traveling on special visas are exempted from this requ iremen t). Up to the end of June 1986, foreign exchange grants from the U.S. aid program were converted at an ex- change rate of LE 1 = US$1 for the private sector and LE 0.90 - US$1 for the public sector. From July 1, 1986, the exchange rate applied to these grants is the bank exchange rate for the private sector and 90 percent of this rate for the public sector. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earnings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any invisible paymen t, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to trans- fer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, and to export other personal effects and furn i ture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign secu- rities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. Foreign and joint-venture banks are required to deposit 15 percent of their foreign currency deposits with the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accord- ance with court orders. Foreigners leaving Egypt per- manently after a period of residence of at least five years are permitted to transfer abroad the equivalent of LE 5,000 in foreign currencies through authorized banks irrespective of whether this sum represents capital assets owned by or income accrued to the foreign national. Amounts exceeding this sum are deposited in a Noncon- vertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) concerning the investment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for trans- fers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customer's account) in precious metals. The import of precious metals and stones for industrial and 196 local market requirements is subject to regulations. The export of gold and silver fabrics may be permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in con- vertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in their gold jewelry within specified limits. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 24. The official commercial bank exchange rate was abolished, and the premium commercial bank rate was renamed as the bank exchange rate. July 24. A ten-member committee, composed of the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank (as Chairman), a representative of the Ministry of Economy and Trade, and the representatives of eight commercial banks (the four public sector commercial banks and four private banks on a six-month rotation basis), was established and charged with the task of determining the exchange rate (the bank rate) for the foreign exchange pool of the authorized banks. July 24. The authorized banks were required to transfer their balances of foreign exchange at the close of business each week to an account at one of the public sector commercial banks. The foreign exchange thus transferred is to be used in accordance with central bank directives. October 26. Foreign exchange allowances for Egyptians traveling abroad on official missions, for medical care, or for other specified invisible paymen ts were to be provided a t LE 1.80 = US$1. Resident Accounts June 17. It was announced that import accounts may be debited up to US$500 or the equivalent in any calendar year to cover the expenses of the account holder or others abroad, provided that the amount disbursed is shown on the beneficiary's travel document and ticket. Nonresident Accounts July 3. The authorized banks were allowed to debit nonconvertible capital accounts for (1) charges legally due from the account holder; (2) up to LE 10,000 for use by the individual account holders in any calendar year; and (3) settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyp- tian authorities by juridical account holders, with no limit, and payments to residents for services rendered up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Imports and Import Payments March 11. An amendment was made to Ministerial Decree No. 316 of 1976 concerning sources and uses of foreign exchange funds that continued to be channeled to the commercial bank pool at the rate of LE 0.84 = US$1. The eligible sources were defined as foreign ex- change to cover the local expenditures of foreign embas- sies, international and regional organizations, foreign companies' representatives and branches in Egypt (ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cepting those governed by amended Law No. 43 of 1974 concerning Arab and Foreign Inves tment and the Free Zones), SUMED, and proceeds of amounts representing shares, quotas, or subscriptions by foreigners in the capital finance corporations and partnerships (except companies governed by Law No. 43 and the free zones). Eligible uses were defined as paymen ts of public liabilities as determined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade and transfers of surplus revenues earned by foreign airlines operating in Egypt that had submitted statements through December 18, 1985 to commercial banks. March ll.lt was announced that the exchange rate to be used to determine the cost element in Egyptian pounds (which serves as a basis for the calculation of the approved profit ratios in the sale of imported goods) is to be set by the Central Bank in line with the free market exchange rate. Profit margins were set at 10 percent for the importer, 5 percent for the wholesaler, and 15 percent for the retailer. March 11. The private sector was permitted to import at the free market exchange rate a wide range of foodstuffs that had been restricted to the public sector. July 24. It was specified that all transfers to finance petroleum drilling and exploration would continue to be transacted at the exchange rate of the Central Bank pool, with the difference between this rate and the commercial bank pool rate to be paid to the Account for Profits Accruing from Foreign Exchange Operations. August 21. Existing licensing requirements for private sector imports were abolished, and all products not included in the negative list (consisting of 210 categories of goods) may be freely imported upon payment of the applicable du ty. Certain goods were exempted from the negative list (e.g., imports financed with bilateral and multilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports), and the items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. A new tariff structure was established, with duty rates ranging between 1 percent for goods considered basic commodities, such as foodstuffs, to 160 percent for luxuries. Other taxes previously added to the basic duty were eliminated. The authorized exemptions were revised and streamlined. EGYPT Exports and Export Proceeds August 10. For all departing foreigners and Egyptian nationals who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 and LE 100, respectively, and for purchases of Khan El Khalil products left by foreigners with Egyptian merchants in excess of LE 150 (provided that they are exported within three months from the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt), evidence is required that foreign ex- change equivalent to the excess value has been exchanged at an authorized bank at the bank exchange rate. Customs retains the exchange vouchers. August 13. All public sector exporters were required to repatriate proceeds within six months from the date of shipment (except where the proceeds from such exports are surrendered to the central bank pool, in which case the proceeds must be repatriated within three months of the date of shipment). The banks are authorized to extend the repatriation period for three additional months when there is sufficient justification. An extension for a longer period requires approval of the General Directorate for Foreign Exchange. When goods are licensed for export with a deposit fee, the proceeds must be collected and repatriated within one year from the date of shipment. October 1. The limit for purchases left behind with Egyptian merchants for which no foreign exchange con- version is required was raised to LE 500. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles March 11. It was announced that only Egyptian na- tionals and foreigners who have lived in Egypt for five consecutive years would be permitted, under certain conditions, to purchase airline tickets (one-way or round trip, originating in Egypt) in Egyptian pounds. Tickets for trips originating abroad may also be paid for in Egyptian pounds if they are purchased by a government agency, a public authority, or a public sector company. All others were required to purchase tickets with con- vertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds converted at the bank exchange rate. July 1. It was announced that foreign exchange grants from the U.S. aid program were to be converted at the premium commercial bank rate for the private sector and at 90 percent of this rate for the public sector. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. The Salvadoran colon is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at ( £ 5 . 00 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are G 5.000 buy ing and G 5.075 selling, per US$1. Official market transactions by commercial banks with the public take place w i th in these limits. Buying and selling rates in the official market for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0.1 percent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts below G 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may slightly exceed 0.1 percent. As a transitional arrangement following the unification of the exchange system on January 22, 1986, the following export proceeds continue to be surrendered at the pre- vious exchange rates: (1) export proceeds which were not surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank prior to January 21, 1986, as stipulated in the corresponding export permit, and (2) proceeds of coffee exports from harvests prior to October 1, 1985. The previous official exchange rate also continues to apply to the following payments: (1) external arrears on all payments with other Central American countries accumulated prior to January 21, 1986, external arrears on service payments outside Central America accumulated up to December 31, 1986, and arrears on payments outside Central America related to confirmed or expired letters of credit up to January 21, 1986; (2) payment obligations for approved imports of medicine financed by letters of credit or by cash payments and imports of capital goods which were cleared through customs prior to January 21, 1986; (3) payments for all capital goods for which letters of credit were opened and authorized by the Central Reserve Bank prior to Janu- ary 22, 1986, and that were not funded from short-term credit lines of foreign banks; and (4) paymen ts for all other imports with letters of credit or by cash paymen ts and imports of capital goods wh ich were cleared through customs prior to November 1, 1985. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to the general directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Prior authorization by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all imports in excess of US$300 and for many invisible payments and capital transactions. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since January 30, 1980, 198 exports of two major commodities have been under government supervision; exports of sugar are governed by the National Sugar Institute ( INAZUCAR ), and those of coffee are governed by the National Coffee Institute (INCAFE). Most of the exchange proceeds from all exports have been centralized at the Central Reserve Bank. The Central Reserve Bank allocates foreign exchange to the commer- cial banks through the Fondo Operativo under which each commercial bank is assigned a maximum foreign exchange operating balance. Commercial banks are re- quired to report daily to the Central Reserve Bank all credits and debits to the Fondo, and each week foreign exchange holdings in excess of the assigned limit are transferred to the Central Bank, while deficiencies may be covered by the Central Bank. In turn, the commercial banks are required to provide foreign exchange to the private sector in accordance with the following list of priorities: (1) basic foods, medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines, and oil products; (2) raw materials and other intermediate goods needed for pro- duction, including machinery, equipment, and replace- ment parts; (3) payments for medical expenses abroad, foreign s tudy, travel, and pensions; (4) debt service; and (5) all other goods, services, transfers, and movements of capital. Arrears are maintained with respect to external com- mercial payments. Prescription of Currency On August 20, 1986 a new payments mechanism called the Derecho de Importacion Centroamericana (DICA) was approved in principle to settle trade transactions with other countries of Central America.1 The DICAs are U.S. dollar-denominated, non-interest-bearing, negotiable, transferable obligations of the Central Bank of an im- porting country, payable in its local currency within a period of 18 months. The issue of DICAs by the Central Bank of an importer is subject to the acceptance of the exporter. Prior to ma tur i ty, DICAs can be freely nego- tiated between exporters and importers in the region at mutually agreed prices, which can differ from the original nominal value of the DICA; at maturity, the DICAs have to be liquidated at the official exchange rate (or average of official exchange rates in case of multiple exchange rates) by the issuing central bank, which will bear the exchange risk arising from any difference between the date of issue and date of liquidation. Certain DICAs can be liquidated prior to maturity; this occurs when a DICA issued by the central bank of a given country and already used for payment of imports from another country is presented for liquidation by an exporter of the same 'This payment mechanism became operational in El Salvador in early 1987. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution country that originally issued the DIG A. Payments to Mexico are settled through a clearing house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign in- stitutions and nonresidents in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of individuals (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons residing in El Salvador for less than six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements of such accounts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Foreign currency deposit accounts may be opened only by exporters to countries outside the CACM, as well as staff of embassies, consulates, and international organi- zations. The balances of existing foreign currency ac- counts that were opened prior to January 21, 1986, other than those of nonresidents and exporters to countries outside the CACM, are not allowed to be increased and have to be liquidated or sold to the banking system by January 21, 1987. The accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars or in any other approved foreign currency; trans- actions can be effected only in the currency in which an account is opened. Accounts may be in the form of a demand or time deposit and are subject to a reserve requirement of 10 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in investments abroad, provided that the maturity of investments does not exceed 30 days for demand deposits, and provided that the maturity of investments from time deposits is the same as the maturity of the time deposit. The banks are required to pay interest on the time deposit at rates of up to 2 percent below LIBOR. Transfers of funds between individual holders of foreign currency deposit accounts are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cot- ton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Permits for private sector imports that exceed the equivalent of US$300 need to be autho- rized by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The allocation of foreign exchange for import payments is made according to a set of priority lists. Top priority is assigned to imports of basic food, medicines, raw materials for production of medicines, and oil imports. EL SALVADOR Second priority is given to imports of raw materials and capital goods for agricultural and industrial production. Import items of low priority are divided into two lists: (1) a prohibited list of imports of luxury items from outside Central America, and (2) a list of nonessential goods imports from outside Central America that are subject to a prior deposit requirement equivalent to 100 percent of the import value. Imports from the rest of Central America can be financed by sight drafts, letters of credit, direct payments, or the regional clearing arrangement. Imports from outside Central America that can be financed through sight drafts ("cobranzas") are limited to US$10,000. Imports from outside Central America in excess of US$10,000 can only be made by means of 90-day letters of credit. However, in practice, the Central Reserve Bank also sets limits on the total value of letters of credit each bank can open. A 20 percent guarantee deposit is required to open a letter of credit with the commercial banks. In addition, the commercial banks require a local currency deposit equiv- alent to at least 25 percent of the import value from importers when opening letters of credit. Public sector import payments are made by the External Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The External Department handles all official bilateral lines of credit, and lines of credit for Industrial Reactivation funded by the Inter-American Development Bank. Imports from countries outside the CACM that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years. Also, medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises. Imports of many nonessential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax at rates ranging between 10 percent and 125 percent. Most goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (i.e., medical treatment, study abroad, and foreign travel) are subject to the following limits: (1) up to US$5,000 a year to meet expenses for medical treatment (additional amounts can be authorized in exceptional cases subject to verifi- cation) and a guarantee deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the foreign exchange to be placed with the Central Reserve Bank; (2) up to US$8,000 per year for educational expenses, plus US$400 per month for living expenses; and (3) up to US$1,500 per year (or US$75 per day for a maximum of 20 days) for nonbusiness trips to countries in Central America (US$700 per year per child under 16 years), up to US$1,875 per year (or US$125 per day for a maximum of 15 days) for nonbusiness trips to countries outside Central America (US$900 per year per child under 16 years), and up to a maximum of US$150 per day for business trips, subject to the approval of the Central Bank. A guarantee deposit of 20 percent of the foreign 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR exchange request in excess of US$400 is required by the commercial banks for travel outside of Central America. For residents traveling outside of Central America, the branch of Banco Hipotecario (a mortgage bank) at the international airport is authorized to sell foreign exchange up to US$800 (on the basis of US$125 per day), without a guarantee deposit, if a traveler can verify that he is still within the applicable annual limits for travel. The authority to grant foreign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks. In the case of private remittances, the Central Reserve Bank can authorize pension payments to retired Salvadoran diplomats living abroad with more than ten years of government service. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foodstuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required for all exports exceeding US$200. Export proceeds from coffee, sugar, and cotton must be surrendered directly to the Central Reserve Bank. In addition, all other export proceeds in excess of US$10,000 received through the commercial banks must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank within one working day. The collection term for export payments normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. Exports of coffee, sugar, and shrimp are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Embassies, consulates, and offices of international organizations in El Salvador and their em- ployees are allowed to deposit their exchange receipts in the special foreign currency accounts in their names for purposes of meeting their foreign exchange requirements. Travelers may bring in G 200 in domestic notes and coins; this limit is, however, subject to modification to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transactions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities, including direct and indirect foreign investment. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enter- prises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonre- newable natural resources, and tourist enterprises; (2) remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the 200 enterprises (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other ins trumen ts representing inves tmen ts or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Payments abroad representing capital movements re- quire exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. Prior approval by the Ex- change Control Department is required for outward re- mittances of interest and amortization on external loans. Foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank; foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank is authorized to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credit by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM member countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of C 25, G 50, C 100, and G 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and other users for dental purposes. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 22. The official exchange rate of the colon was changed from G 2.5 per US$1 to G 5.0 per US$1. At the same time, the official exchange market and the parallel exchange market were un i f ied at the new official rate. Compared with the weighted average value of the colon during the first half of January (about C 3.80 per U.S. dollar), the exchange rate ad jus tment invo lved a depre- ciation of about 24 percent in foreign currency terms. As a transitional arrangement, the following export proceeds con t inued to be surrendered at the previous exchange rates: (1) export proceeds which were not surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank prior to Janu- ary 21, 1986, as stipulated in the corresponding export permit; and (2) proceeds of coffee exports from harvests ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prior to October 1, 1985. The previous official exchange rate also continued to apply to the following paymen ts: (1) external arrears on all paymen ts with other Central American countries accumulated prior to January 21, 1986, external arrears on service paymen ts outside Central America accumulated up to December 31, 1985, and arrears on paymen ts outside Central America related to confirmed or expired letters of credit up to January 21, 1986; (2) payment obligations for approved imports of medicine f inanced by letters of credit or by cash payment and imports of capital goods that were cleared through customs prior to January 21, 1986; (3) paymen ts for all capital goods for which letters of credit were opened and authorized by the Central Reserve Bank prior to Janu- ary 22, 1986 and that were not funded from short-term credit lines of foreign banks; and (4) paymen ts for all other imports with letters of credit or by cash payment and imports of capital goods that were cleared through customs prior to November 1, 1985. February 10. Each commercial bank was assigned a maximum foreign exchange operating balance (Fondo Operative). Foreign exchange holdings in excess of this limit were required to be transferred to the Central Reserve Bank, while deficiencies could be covered by the Central Reserve Bank. August 20. A new payments mechanism for intra- regional trade was approved in principle. The new pay- ments mechanism, which is called Derecho de Importa- tion Centroamericana (DICA), is a U.S. dollar-denomi- nated, non-interest-bearing, negotiable, transferable obligation of the Central Bank of an importing country payable in its local currency within a period of 18 months. The issue of DICAs by the central bank of an importer is subject to the acceptance of the exporter, since the new payments mechanism will operate together with other existing payments arrangements within the region, such as barter trade, payments in U.S. dollars, and use of national currencies for border trade. At maturity, the DICAs have to be liquidated by the issuing central bank, which will bear the exchange loss/profit arising from any variations in the exchange rate since the date of issue. DICAs issued by the central bank of a given country and already used to pay an import from another country have to be liquidated before the end of 18 months when presented for liquidation by an exporter of the same country that issued the DICA. Prior to maturity, the DICAs can be negotiated freely between exporters and importers and can be used for the settlement of trade transactions within the region. Imports and Import Payments January 21. Permits for imports exceeding the equiv- alent of US$300 (previously, US$2,000) were required to be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank. Import items that are considered to be of low priority by the Govern- ment (the previous "G" list) were divided into two lists, as follows: (1) a prohibited list of imports of luxury items from outside Central America, which was to be maintained EL SALVADOR for one year, and (2) a list of nonessential imports from outside Central America, which were made subject to a prior deposit requ irement equivalent to 100 percent of the import value; the deposit must be made by the importer at the time an import permit is requested and is to be held by the Central Reserve Bank for a period of at least 90 days; no interest is paid on such deposits. Imports from outside Central America that can be financed through sight drafts ("cobranzas") were limited to US$5,000. Imports from outside Central America in excess of US$5,000 can only be made by means of 90-day letters of credit financing. To open a letter of credit, a 20 percent guarantee is required by the commercial banks; when the guarantee is in the form of deposits in local currency, that deposit is held with the Central Reserve Bank for a period of at least 90 days and interest is paid on such deposits. January 22. As a transitional arrangement, payment obligations for certain external arrears and already com- mitted import payments were allowed to be transacted at the previous exchange rate. February 6. Imports of many nonessential goods were made subject to a selective consumption tax at rates between 10 percent and 125 percent. April 4. The Central Bank instructed the commercial banks to require at least a 25 percent local currency deposit from importers (in addition to the 20 percent guarantee) when opening letters of credit. The local currency deposit is held with the commercial banks and bears interest similar to deposits of equal maturity. May 1. The Central Bank raised the limit on imports from outside Central America that can be financed by sight drafts to US$10,000 (previously, the applicable limit was US$5,000). November 26. Imports to be settled with DICAs were exempted from the regulations issued on January 21, 1986 (mentioned above). Payments for Invisibles February 6. Authorizations of foreign exchange for invisible paymen ts related to medical trea tment and study abroad were to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank and were made subject to the following limits (prev ious ly, there were no limits): (1) up to US$5,000 a year to meet expenses for medical t rea tmen t, although additional amoun ts can be authorized in exceptional cases subject to verification; in addition, a guarantee deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the foreign exchange request must be placed with the Central Reserve Bank; and (2) up to US$8,000 per year for educational expenses, plus US$400 per mon th for living expenses. Au tho r i ty to grant foreign exchange for foreign travel was delegated to commercial banks, but was made subject to the following limits (previously, the limits were higher and, in addition, additional amounts were allowed to meet bona fide re- qu iremen ts): up to US$1,500 per year (or US$75 per day for a max imum of 20 days) for trips to countries in Central America (US$700 per year per child under 16 years); up to US$1,875 per year (or US$125 per day for a max imum 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR of 15 days) for trips to countries outside Central America (US$900 per year per child under 16 years); up to a maximum of US$150 per day for business trips, subject to the approval of the Central Reserve Bank; a guarantee deposit of 20 percent was required for authorization for travel to outside Central America in excess of US$400 per trip. In the case of private remittances, the Central Reserve Bank can authorize pension payments to retired Salvadoran diplomats living abroad with more than ten years of government service. February 6. Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (i.e., medical treatment abroad, study abroad, foreign travel, and repatriation of pension payments) were in- cluded in the list of priorities according to which the Central Reserve Bank authorized foreign exchange, mod- ifying the priority list as follows: (1) basic foods, medi- cines, raw materials for the production of medicines, and oil products; (2) raw materials and other intermediate goods needed for production, including machinery, equip- men t, and replacement parts; (3) payments for medical expenses abroad, foreign study, travel, and pensions; (4) debt service; and (5) all other goods, services, transfers, and movements of capital. February 13. For residents traveling outside of Central America, the Banco Hipotecario office at the international airport was authorized to sell foreign exchange up to US$800 (on the basis of US$125 per day), w i thout the guarantee deposit, if a traveler could verify that he was still within the applicable annual limits for travel. May 26. Authority to grant foreign exchange for s tudy abroad was delegated to the commercial banks, but the applicable limits were kept unchanged. Exports and Export Proceeds January 22. As a transitional arrangement, the following export proceeds were allowed to be surrendered at the previous exchange rates: (1) export proceeds that were not surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank prior to January 21,1986, as stipulated in the corresponding export permit; and (2) proceeds of coffee exports from harvests prior to October 1, 1985. January 22. Export proceeds from coffee, sugar, and cotton were required to be surrendered directly to the Central Reserve Bank, and all other export proceeds in excess of US$10,000 had to be transferred by the com- mercial banks to the Central Reserve Bank w i th in one working day. Capital January 22. The Monetary Board instructed the Central Reserve Bank to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credits by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. January 22. Foreign currency accounts that were opened prior to January 21, 1986 were not allowed to be increased and have to be liquidated or sold to the banking system by January 21, 1987. February 6. Nonres iden ts and exporters to outside Central America were allowed to maintain foreign cur- rency deposits. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and paymen ts of reinsurance prem iums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equatorial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, the Congo, Cote dTvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made free ly, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Prescription of Currency As Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account coun- t ry, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. The CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonres- ident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports in excess of CFAF 50,000 in value are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the autho- rization of uninterrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist trave l, residents traveling to coun- tries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Equatorial Guinea must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFA 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. Of that amoun t, CFAF 150,000 may be bills. Travelers must present certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The amount of transfer of the salary of a foreigner working in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as jus t if ica t ion of expenses, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in a mon th of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners work ing in Equatorial Guinea temporarily, paymen ts of insurance p rem iums to foreign countries up to CFAF 50,000 are perm i t ted; larger amoun ts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries ou ts ide the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonres ident travelers may take out bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are proh ib i ted. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all coun- tries are subject to domiciliation requ i remen ts for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Paymen ts for exports must be made w i th in 30 days from the arrival date of the merchandise at its des t ina t ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due date and surrendered within a mon th of collection if received in foreign cur- rency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movemen ts between Equatorial Guinea and France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted f ree ly .2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Gu inea. The approval of the Direc- torate of Mines is required to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is not normally g iven, as there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. New ly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of M ines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users. Exports are only allowed to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of M ines and the M in is ter of Finance, which is seldom granted for impor ts. Exempt from th is requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary au thor i t ies, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Regulations on capital t ransac t ions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equa tor ial Gu in ea or d i rect i n v e s tm e n t s, have been prepared and are pend ing app rova l. The au tho r i t i es are also in the process of d ra f t ing leg is la t ion a imed at s t imu l a t ing fore ign inv e s tm ent in the ag r icu l tu ra l, fo r e s t ry, con s t ru c t ion, p u b l ic wo rks, m i n i n g, and indu s t r i al e q u i pm e nt ma in tenance sectors. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 percent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recip- ient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control ap- proval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident ac- counts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontrans- ferable birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. A joint venture may be permitted to open foreign currency, transferable or nontransferable, birr accounts for the purchase of raw materials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods purchased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Division. In general, the accounts may only be replenished after such documents have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is condi- tional upon the provision of satisfactory information on costs and payment terms and the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for a specified range of imported goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable con- sumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic products. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization by the Minister of Transport. Exchange licenses are granted in the cur- rency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally accept- able, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. In- visibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA remit a maximum ranging between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pursuing higher studies in accredited insti- tutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit pre- miums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange allocation for med- ical treatment and travel abroad of up to Br 10,000. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to re- strict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumulation of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. 206 All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of re- ceipt, which is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and pay- ment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appro- priate documentation, foreign businessmen having non- registered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. (This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under the new foreign investment code.) Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Joint ventures are permitted between the Ethiopian public sector and foreign investors, with up to 49 percent foreign ownership, except in the precious metals, public utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, transport, and domestic trade sectors. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of the National Committee for Central Planning and registered with the Domestic Trade Ministry; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital is required to be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects, and for up to three years for extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemptions from customs duties and other specified import levies. Such ventures must be limited to 25 years in duration, but could be extended beyond this limit with the approval of the Council of Ministers. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the permission of the National Bank. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corporation to the Na- tional Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ETHIOPIA 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the va lue of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U .S. dollar and other currencies in- cluded in the basket. On December 31, 1986 the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.1453 = US$1. The Reserve Bank of Fiji provides official quo ta t ions only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Fiji, acting as agent of the Governmen t; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import paymen ts. Except with the specific permission of the Reserve Bank, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The Ministry of Economic De- velopment is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, t imber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, for timber by the Ministry of For- es try, and for rice and dairy products by the M in is try of Agriculture and Fisheries. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Payments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency or a Foreign Currency Account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on lUnder F i j i's Exchange Control Regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a coun t ry other than Fiji. As regards ind iv idua ls, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or in tends to con t inue l iv ing in Fiji for at least three years. 208 the account, with paymen ts from other External Ac- counts, with the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the coun t ry during a temporary visit. External Accounts also may be credited with pay- men ts by res iden ts for which e i ther a general or a specific authority has been given. External Accoun ts may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accoun ts, paymen ts in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, although imports of a range of specified goods, including tea, mild steel bars, steel shelving and racking, tubes and pipes of iron or steel, cement, certain foods tuffs, alcoholic beverages, kerosene stoves, safety matches, seed pota- toes, poly v inyl chloride (PVC) pipes, PVC-insulated elec- tric wires and wiring pin clips, polypropylene bags and ropes, clinker, polypropylene fabrics, kn i t ted fabrics, louver window frames, shirts, wood screws, and incense sticks and chemicals used as raw materials in their manufac ture, are subject to individual import licensing; licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. A wide range of consumer goods is imported by national cooperative societies under a jo int arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers who may allow paymen ts for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance paymen ts for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either under a delegated au thor i ty to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated paymen ts are invo lved, upon application to the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Reserve Bank, a foreign currency travel allowance for a private or business visit up to the equ iva lent of F$2,000 a person a jou rney. For an extended visit, a traveler may apply before his departure to the Reserve Bank of Fiji for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made from abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amoun ts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank or the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other i tems. Irrespec- tive of any export licensing requ iremen ts, however, ex- porters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value exceeding F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports w i th in six mon ths of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six mon ths without specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers ma> bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer w i th in one mon th of re tu rn. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Foreign invest- ment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign inves tment may be g iven "approved status," which guarantees the right to repa- triate dividends and capital. All capital ou tf lows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by residents to finance direct inves tmen ts require the specific permis- sion of the Reserve Bank of Fiji and are permitted only where benef i ts will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. Au thor i ty is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Accoun t, and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another Ex- ternal Account (including Fiji currency accounts of over- seas banks). The banks must send conf irma t ion of such inflows to the Reserve Bank; they must also have the approval of the Bank before granting any loans in excess of F$ 10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by ind iv idua ls designated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$l0,000 to individual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign FIJI currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents require permission from the Reserve Bank of Fiji before they may borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to non- residents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equ iva lent to F$500 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on depar ture. With the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a max imum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities. The purchase of personal real prop- erty outside Fiji is not permitted. Special tax incentives are granted for inves tmen ts in the tourist indus t ry, and an inves tment allowance similar to that for the hotel indus try is provided for large outlay inves tment projects supportive of the tourist indus try. Portfolio inves tment in Fiji by nonres iden ts requires approval by the Reserve Bank; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such inves tment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control permission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bu l l ion. The export of gold coin, except num isma t ic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coin, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs du ty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs du ty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 10 percent. Gold jewe lry is subject to customs du ty at the rate of 7.5 percent and to a fiscal du ty of 20 percent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufac turers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewe lry are free of export du ty, but they require licenses if their value exceeds F$ 1,000. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Commemorative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 7. The weights of the U .S. dollar and the pound sterling in the reference basket for the exchange rate were reduced, and the weights of the Australian dollar, Japa- nese yen, and the New Zealand dollar were increased. March 13-May 2. The Fiji dollar was devalued by 5 percent against the reference basket. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Imports and Import Payments January 13. Cement and clinker were added to the list of prohibited/restricted imports. June 12. Polypropylene fabrics and baked beans in tomato sauce were added to the list of prohibited/restricted imports. July 21. Fresh oranges were added to the list of prohibited/restricted imports. July 31. Knitted fabrics were added to the list of prohibited/restricted imports. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the convertible currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These are defined as the convertible cur- rencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years. The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) within a margin established by the Council of State; since January 1984 the range has been 101.3-106.0 (1982 = 100). The actual level of the index has been in the range of 102.3-105.2 since March 1984. The index weights are adjusted quarterly and based on the average trade shares for the past two years; the base year is changed annually. The Suomen Pankki calculates and publishes the currency index on a daily basis. Daily (noon) buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are quoted by the Suomen Pankki. On December 31, 1986 the rates were Fmk 4.786 and Fmk 4.802 per US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks are market deter- mined and normally reflect roughly interest rate differ- ences in various currencies. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Suomen Pankki operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized banks (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Indus try), which is headed by a Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the convertible currency coun- tries and the bilateral countries.1 Settlements with the 1 Finland maintains bilateral payments agreements w i th Bulgaria, Czech- oslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. Transactions w i th Czechoslovakia and Poland have, however, been settled in freely convertible U.S. dollars since 1970 under agreements concluded bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clear- ing Finnish markka for Bulgaria and the German Demo- cratic Republic). Settlements with the convertible cur- rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts and Domestic Markka Accounts.2 Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in any convertible currency, including Finnish markka. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency received directly from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, with amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, with amounts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Domestic Markka Accounts comprise all other nonres- ident accounts. They are held in markkaa and are intended primarily for payments of a capital nature. The transfer abroad of funds in a Domestic Markka Account requires the special permission of the Suomen Pankki in most cases. A monetary institution may credit a Domestic Markka Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan received from a Finnish monetary institution in a per- missible manner, and with interest accrued on funds held in the account. Domestic Markka Accounts may be debited freely for noncommercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in these accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable fund s. The Suomen Pankki generally grants permission for each year. Under an agreement concluded between Finland and Czechoslovakia in August 1985, the practice whereby transactions are settled in convertible currencies was extended for three years from the beginning of 1986; the paymen ts arrangement is henceforth to be renewed automatically for three years, unless otherwise agreed. In addition, under an agreement concluded between Finland and Poland in December 1985 and renewed for another year in December 1986, paymen ts may be effected in Finnish markkaa as well as in U.S. dollars. 2On January 1, 1986, previous "Restricted Accounts" were abolished, w i th the Suomen Pankki reserving the power to reintroduce them in case of need. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Domestic Markka Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are pur- chased from and originate in those countries. However, certain goods3 may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys tem, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amoun ts of quotas for specified commodity groups. With the exception of the commodities to which ref- erence was made in the preceding paragraph, import licenses are not requ ired for most commodities originating in and purchased from the U .S .S .R ., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Dem- ocratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originating in countries or areas not classified4 in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application fo rm, the import license (when required for imports from coun- tries with nonconvertible currencies), and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the coun try or there is suff ic ient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six mon ths after the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the import payment is made to the seller through foreign financing credits arranged by an autho- rized Finnish bank, the credit period may not exceed six months w i thout a special permit. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of invisible transactions are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect paymen ts for most invisibles. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange without a limit on the basis of a breakdown of costs drawn up by the purchaser; the maximum limit is Fmk 10,000 per trip, if a cost breakdown is not provided. In the case of business travel, any amount may be made available by a bank. In addition, travel exchange may be acquired abroad up to the value of Fmk 10,000 by drawing checks against a Finnish bank account or by withdrawing funds against a passbook, a debit card, or a credit or charge card. A 3Agricultural commodities, fish, fuels and other petroleum products, and unwrought gold and silver. Currently Taiwan (see Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65) and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 212 resident traveler may use a credit or charge card abroad without a limit on amount for travel services and settle the transaction after his re tu rn. Travel exchange and a credit or charge card may also be used to buy merchandise, provided that the purchase price of each such item does not exceed Fmk 10,000. The annual limit on freely remittable amounts for gifts and contributions to residents is Fmk 100,000. Nonresident travelers may take out of the coun try Fmk 10,000 a trip in Finnish or foreign bank notes and coin and any amount in Finnish or foreign bank notes and coin declared upon en t ry; resident travelers may take out of the coun try foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 10,000, w i thout the export certificate for means of paymen t. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds w i th in eight days of collection, which may then be held in a domestic foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to coun- tries (e.g., the U.S.S.R.) that are not in the convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles must be repatriated w i th in eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign currency account in Finland. Any unu t i l ized foreign bank notes and traveler's checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the repatriation requ irement up to Fmk 10,000 for assets held in Finland. The import of domestic and foreign currency and coin is unres tr ic ted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are sub- ject to approval by the Suomen Pankk i. Authorization is gran ted, however, for residents of Finland to invest in foreign listed securities, to place funds in accounts with foreign monetary ins t i tu t ions, or to leave foreign claims unrepatriated up to a total of the equivalent of Fmk 10,000 a calendar year. Inheritances are transferred to the ben- eficiaries after verification. Persons who have resided outside Finland during the last calendar year and continue to do so are allowed to transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Suomen Pankki. Non res iden ts may purchase shares quoted on the Hel- sinki Stock Exchange or in the authorized banks' OTC market in Finland through an authorized bank or a securities agent, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Accoun t. When the securities so acquired by a nonres ident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities through an authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bank or a securities agent and to transfer abroad the net proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Ex- change or in the authorized banks' OTC markets in Finland with funds from Domestic Markka Accounts is also permitted automatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank or a securities agent, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Suomen Pankki. Other transactions in securities require approval in most cases. Inward direct inves tmen ts require the approval of the Council of State. Such approval is usually granted, with the exception of inves tmen ts in the forest and mining industries and in certain traditionally regulated activities. The transfer of direct inves tment capital requires autho- rization by the Suomen Pankk i. Such authorization is usually granted, if the under ly ing inves tment has been approved by the Council of State. Repatriation of direct inves tment is subject to the approval of the Suomen Pankki, which is freely given. Outward transfers of capital, inc lud ing transfers of direct inves tment by residents, require ind iv idual approval by the Suomen Pankki. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Subject to certain regulations, authorized banks, securi- ties agents, and insurance companies have permission to purchase foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Purchases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a limit of Fmk 600,000 a person, subject to the approval of the Suomen Pankk i, wh ich is granted liberally. The upper limit on shares entitling part-time use of a real estate abroad is Fmk 600,000. Finnish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 600,000 a person or, in the case of emigrating families, Fmk 400,000 a person in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. External borrowing by Finnish res iden ts, particularly in the form of short-term or long-term financial credits, including bond issues abroad, requires the specific ap- proval of the Suomen Pankk i, which exercises surveil- lance over the amount of capital inf low as well as the terms and timing. The Suomen Pankki has exempted from regulation foreign credits w i th at least a five-year ma tur i ty that have been raised by companies engaged in manufac- turing or shipping to finance their own operations. Com- panies operating in these sectors are now allowed to raise these credits w i thout quan t i ta t ive restrictions. The au- thorized banks and certain other financial ins t i tu t ions are entitled to act as intermediaries between such credits and their corporate customers. The credit terms and, in the case of bonds and deben tu res, the timing of credits must also receive prior approval of the Suomen Pankk i, which is not always granted. Lending to nonres iden ts by non- banks is generally restricted to export credits. Permission is not required for customary export credits; suppliers' credits to residents of Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, and the U .S .S .R. are, however, subject to special permit by the Suomen Pankki. International bank- ing activities of Finnish commercial banks are mostly FINLAND free of regulations, other than certain supervisory re- porting requirements. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Imports of unwrought gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Off ice; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted free ly. Changes During 1986 Prescription of Currency January 1. In keeping with an agreement concluded between Finland and Czechoslovakia in August 1985, the practice of settling transactions in convertible currencies was extended for three years. Under the agreement, the paymen ts arrangement is henceforth to be renewed au- tomatically for three years at a t ime, unless otherwise agreed. December 6. The agreement concluded in December 1985, under wh ich paymen ts be tween Finland and Poland may be effected in Finnish markkaa as well as in U .S. dollars, was extended for another year. Nonresident Accounts January 1. Restricted Accounts were abolished, and the designation "Capital Account" was changed to "Do- mestic Markka Account ." Imports and Import Payments January 1. The penalty surcharge scheme applied to short-term import credits was abolished; the charging of an "overtime fee" for suppliers' credits exceeding six mon ths was abolished; and the max imum ma tu r i ty period of suppliers' credits not requiring special permission of the Suomen Pankki was specified as six mon ths. May 16. The Suomen Pankki removed the upper limit on the amount of foreign financing credits for imports mediated by banks. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The annual limit on freely remittable amounts for gifts and contributions to nonresidents was raised to Fmk 50,000. January 1. Authorized banks were permitted to provide foreign exchange for travel w i thout a l im i t, on the basis of a breakdown of costs drawn up by the purchaser. Capital January 1. The following changes were introduced: (1) the max imum permissible amount of a loan to a nonres- ident through a nonres ident markka account was raised from Fmk 50,000 to Fmk 100,000; (2) authorization was granted for residents of Finland to invest in foreign listed securities, to place funds in accounts w i th foreign mon- 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND etary institutions, or to leave foreign claims unrepatriated up to a total equivalent of Fmk 10,000 a calendar year; (3) the individual limit on purchases of real estate abroad was raised to Fmk 600,000, while the upper limit on shares entitling part-time use of real estate abroad was also raised to Fmk 600,000; (4) securities agents were accorded the same rights as the authorized banks to act as intermediaries in securities transactions between res- idents and nonresidents; and (5) the foreign exchange allowance for emigrants was raised to Fmk 600,000 a person or, in the case of an emigrating fam i ly, Fmk 400,000 a person. January 1. Suppliers' credits to residents of Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, and the U.S.S.R. henceforth required special permits from the Suomen Pankki. May 13. The authorized banks were granted permission to use foreign credits to finance their customers' long- term export receivables. Similarly, exporters were granted permission, on application, to raise foreign finance in their own names in order to finance their long-term export receivables. May 16. The Suomen Pankki began treating domestic foreign currency deposits received by banks as equivalent to banks' foreign borrowing; subsequently, banks were, in practice, no longer able to grant domestic credits denominated in foreign currency from these funds. June 16. The prohibition on the sale of Finnish bonds and debentures to nonresidents was rescinded so long as they were bought with earnings or sales proceeds from Finnish bonds and debentures acquired previously or with funds held in Finland by persons who have emigrated from Finland. June 16. The authorized banks and other securities agents were permitted to sell foreign securities from their own portfolios to residents within the quantitative limits set in the Foreign Exchange Regulations. August 1. The Suomen Pankki exempted from regula- tions foreign credits with a maturity of at least five years raised by manufacturing and shipping companies for financing their own operations. The decision on the removal of control did not apply to bond or debenture issues denominated in Finnish markkaa. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France participates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other partic- ipants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Cur- rency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the Central Bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amoun ts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Francs Upper limit Lower limit 16.3045 89.925 333.03 295.57 918.90 0.4941 15.5870 85.970 318.37 282.56 878.50 0.4383 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctua- tions in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buy ing and selling rates for 20 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 6.4550 and F 6.4690, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account2 as follows: (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP franc, which has a fixed parity with the franc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, F inn ish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 2Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d ' lvo i re, Equatorial Gu inea, Gabon, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, and Togo. Operations Account countries (see footnote 2). These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA f ranc, which circulates in Ben in, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their corre- spondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic, that is, in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Mar t in ique, French Gu iana, Reun ion, and St. Pierre and Miquelon), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see foot- note 2); paymen ts between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control pur- poses; all paymen ts between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also con- sidered foreign countries. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward and outward direct inves tment and other borrow- ing abroad on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021 of No- vember 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the French Franc Zone ( i .e ., Operations Account countries). Certain exchange operations are free from any prior authorization; these include direct investment coming from and going to EC countries, which are nevertheless submitted to prior notification. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget is the coordinating agency for financial relations w i th foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE paymen ts, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance and the Budget has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of com- mercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.3 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on non-resident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the exchange market by a nonres- ident; (2) the franc proceeds of the sale of foreign bank notes to an authorized bank by a nonresident bank or a traveler; (3) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French bank notes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a nonresident, including interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the proceeds, income, and am- ortization from French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, and the proceeds of the sale on a French stock exchange of securities denominated in French francs, including securities held by authorized banks; (8) liquidation proceeds of non-resident-held direct investments;4 (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary public, of non-resident-owned real estate to physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality; (10) French bank notes up to a limit of F 12,000 if a person can provide proof of the sale of foreign currencies and, up to a limit of F 3,000 without such proof; and (11) checks given to residents if the nonresident resides in France, up to a limit of F 3,000. These accounts may be freely debited for: (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresident of foreign bank notes or withdrawals in French bank notes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French bank notes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct inves tment in France by nonresidents (see footnote 4); (7) purchases of real estate from resi- dents, through the intermediation of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accord- ance with the relevant regulations by residents; (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident; and (11) repay- ment of consumer and real estate loans by French banks for foreigners living in France. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. Diplomatic personnel working in France, French nonresidents, and nonresidents managing an organization in a personal capacity may hold resident and nonresident accounts. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency ac- counts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quantitative restric- tions and individual licenses. Imports of goods that originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and some- comprising the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). 4Subject to compliance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of February 22, 1971 and Decree No. 80-618 of August 4, 1980. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution times, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberaliza- tion: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, An- dorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, the Syrian Arab Re- public, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugo- slavia; (2) some specified countries;5 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R .), People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from coun- tries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from different countries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are re- stricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are sub ject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do require a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Admin- istration or by the appropriate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the Eu- ropean Coal and Steel Commun i ty (ECSC) require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Afghanistan, Argentina, Aus tra l ia, Bhu tan, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Bu rma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Iraq, Japan, Repub l ic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Afr ica, Sri Lanka, Tha i land, U ruguay, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Repub l ic, and People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. FRANCE Other imports generally require ind iv idual import li- censes. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a def in i te period. Imports of some products must pass through designated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through cus- toms must be written in or translated into French. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange mar- ket. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but in practice, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000, as it does not under take domiciliation. Authorized banks may w i thout special authorization permit advance paymen ts to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 percent of the price for all goods. Higher advance paymen ts require prior approval by the Cus toms Adm in is tra t ion. For all imports, importers may purchase spot foreign currency eight working days before utilization; utilization cannot take place before the payment falls due. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. Forward cover in foreign currency, including the ECU, for import pay- ments is free. In cases where the contract is canceled, the covering operation must be terminated immediately. If the cancellation results in a foreign exchange profit, the bank involved must inform the Bank of France. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amoun t. If ju s t i fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are me t, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles w i thout any limitation. Any resident may make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 3,000 a transaction, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Outward remittances for family support abroad and transfers of donations to nonresidents are freely perm i t ted. Payments that may be authorized w i thout limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonres iden ts in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance paymen ts; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three mon ths from the date of paymen t. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these inc lude certain transactions relating to insurance, re insurance, and road and river transport. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 12,000 a person a trip, which may be taken for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equ iv- alent of F 1,000 a person a day in French francs or foreign currency. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for business travel may be approved by the Bank of France or the CCCE, provided that no capital outflow is invo lved. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered within one mon th upon re turn to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in means of paymen ts acquired in the exchange market against a tourist travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 12,000 in foreign bank notes, unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m inus any amounts ex- changed for francs, plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in addition, subject to the submission of an authorized bank 's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign bank notes or foreign currency traveler's checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 12,000 in French bank notes. These bank notes may be used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 12,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 12,000 in French bank notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French bank notes up to F 12,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French bank notes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repatriation6 and, where appropriate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. from exports to foreign countries are required not later than three mon ths from the date of receipt. Exporters are allowed forward coverage of an unlimited period. Small business exporters may be authorized by the Bank of France to spend locally up to 5 percent of export receipts or F 30,000 a month (whichever is higher) held in foreign currency accounts. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets (with the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered within three months from the due date and, in any case, within eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of bank notes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in excess of F 1,000 within a month of en try. Capital Capital movemen ts between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, and outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inves tmen t). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of non-resident-owned fund s, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (doss ier etranger de valeurs must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French secu- rities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct inves tmen t, resi- dents may purchase abroad French and foreign securities on stock exchanges and securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange, through authorized banks, except for equities with a maturity of less than five years issued by foreign governments. French and foreign se- curities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them in to France through an authorized bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward direct inves tment and other borrowing abroad on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the French Franc Zone ( i .e ., Operations Account countries). Certain ex- change operations are free from any prior authorization; these include direct inves tmen ts coming from EC coun- tries, which are nevertheless subject to prior notification. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in France require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as inves tmen ts leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation exceeding 20 percent of the capital is con- sidered as direct inves tmen t. A participation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a firm whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange is not considered as direct inves tmen t. To determine whether a company is foreign controlled, the Treasury may also take into account any special relationships resulting from such factors as stock options, patents and licenses, and com- mercial contracts. Under specified provisos, foreign com- panies controlled by EC residents are free to establish a subsidiary and to take over any participation in the equity capital of a French company. Foreign companies con- trolled by other nonresidents may establish a subsidiary or take over any participation under F 10 million in a French company within one mon th following the decla- ration, unless the Minister of Economy, Finance and the Budget formally notifies the companies of its decision to postpone the operation; such a decision is highly excep- tional. Whatever the nationality of a nonresident inves tor, the Treasury is, however, entitled to issue a finding within one month to forbid such an establishment or participa- tion, should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, or defense. Takeovers of French com- panies by non-EC residents amounting to more than F 10 million, as well as changes in shareholder's ownership percentage of any foreign-controlled corporation, require FRANCE an authorization. Exemptions from declaration or ap- proval requirements are granted for increases of equity capital of a subsidiary by the parent company and for loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary, provided that (1) the interest charges are at a normal market rate, (2) there is a def ined schedule of repaymen t, and (3) each drawing remains ou ts tand ing for at least one year. Foreign participation in newly privatized companies is restricted to 20 percent of the capital. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct inves tment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days of its occurrence. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted in advance to the Directorate of the Treasury. Direct foreign inves tment by residents is not restricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy w i th in 20 days. The liquidation of direct inve s tment abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds are repatriated to France in due t ime. Foreign issues on the French capital marke t, except issues originating from EC countries, are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Governmen t, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, is unres tr ic ted, provided that the loan is surrendered and if the loan is on commercial terms and carries a m in imum ma tur i ty exceeding one year. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior authoriza- tion. The application of the controls over direct inves tment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are ma in ly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France w i th in the framework of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and vary ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is also allowed subject to certain restrictions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign cur- rency to nonresidents are free from limitation. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France require prior authorization by the Bank of France. Imports or exports to or from the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted from that requirement. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold- filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 7. The central rate of the French franc in the EMS was changed from ECU 1 = F 6.86402 to ECU 1 = F 6.9628, and the following bilateral rates were set against the other currencies of the EMS: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Francs Upper limit Lower limit 16.3045 89.925 333.03 295.57 998.85 0.4941 15.5870 85.970 318.37 282.56 954.90 0.4383 August 4. The following new bilateral rates of the French franc against the Irish pound were set: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Irish pounds Francs Upper limit Lower limit 918.90 878.50 Imports and Import Payments April 15. Forward import cover for purchases of goods invoiced in foreign exchange was permitted up to three months (six months if invoiced in ECUs). May 15. The period of allowable forward cover for purchases of goods invoiced in foreign exchange was extended to six months. 220 May 22. Companies were allowed to hedge their cur- rency exposure by using forward foreign exchange con- tracts of up to six months for imports on goods. July 4. The limit on the period of allowable forward cover for purchases of goods invoiced in foreign exchange was eliminated. Payments for Invisibles January 27. The standard allocation of means of pay- ment in francs and foreign exchange that residents may take with them when traveling abroad was increased from F 5,000 to F 12,000. They may take with them additional means of payment upon specific authorization from the Bank of France or the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique. The limit on exports of bank notes without supporting documents by nonresident travelers was raised from F 5,000 to F 12,000. April 15. The ceiling on small transfers was raised from F 3,000 per month per person to F 3,000 per transactions, and the ceiling on cash advances through the use of credit cards abroad was raised from F 2,000 to F 6,000 per week. Exports and Export Proceeds May 22. Exporters were allowed to retain foreign exchange proceeds from exports for up to one month before compulsory surrender; previously, the retention period was eight days. May 22. Companies engaging in trading and dealing in commodities exchanges were allowed to operate in France under normal conditions, as follows: (1) traders were allowed to make forward purchases of up to six months; (2) operators were allowed to use forward cover to purchase foreign exchange for transactions on commod- ities fu tu re markets with a limit on authorized cover; (3) operators were allowed to obtain forward cover for up to six months for their arbitrage operations between the Paris Commodities Exchange and foreign exchanges. July 4. Exporters were allowed to obtain forward cover for an unlimited period; previously, the period was re- stricted to six months. Exporters were also allowed to retain foreign exchange proceeds from exports for up to three months. November 18. The requirement that exporters carry out their foreign exchange transactions through banks was abolished. Capital April 16. The requirement for prior authorization of direct foreign investment in an amount exceeding F 15 million per year and per investor was eliminated, and a new regulation was introduced which required that a report be filed. The investment is unrestricted 15 days after the report has been filed, provided no notification to the contrary has been given. The new regulation, however, does not apply to inves tment in holding com- panies or to the purchase of real estate, including farm- land. Also, prior authorization was no longer required for borrowing abroad, if income is repatriated and if the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution loan is extended on commercial terms and carries a minimum maturity exceeding one year. Advance repay- ment of the loan (of more than one year) does not normally require authorization. Loans denominated in foreign ex- change for trade do not require authorization. May 22. Capital transactions were liberalized, as fol- lows: (1) the devise-titre system was abolished; (2) the restriction on purchases by individuals of secondary residences abroad was lifted; and (3) individuals were authorized to transfer their assets when they settle abroad and to make donations to nonresidents. FRANCE August 10. The maximum ceiling on foreign participa- tion in newly privatized companies was set at 20 percent. November 18. Subject to certain restrictions, French banks were allowed to make loans in francs to nonresi- dents. Also, banks were allowed to convert foreign loans into francs when the loans are the object of a rescheduling agreement involving countries experiencing financial difficulties. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commissions are charged at the rate of 0.25 per mill on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts, and 0.225 per mill on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting off ices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the M in is try of Economy and Finance because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon 's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mon- aco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count (Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Ins t i tu t ions in the M in is try of Finance, Budget and Participations supervises borrow- ing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget and Participations, who has partly delegated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that w i th respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, that is, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import au- thorizations, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account coun t ry, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, 'The CFA franc c ircu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afr ique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equatorial Gu inea. 222 French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank 's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC bank no tes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC) are free of formalities; imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to an authorization to import (when the value is more than CFAF 500,000). All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts, an antic- ipatory authorization is given to simplify administrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete w i th, domestic products are subject to licensing, bu t, w i th a few exceptions2 established by Ministerial Order, import authorizations are granted liberally in practice. Some imports are pro- hibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are suspended except when originating from member countries of the UDEAC. All imports of com- mercial goods must be insured through authorized insur- ance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the M in is try of Economy and Finance (Directorate of Financial Ins t i tu t ions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are submitted. For many types of payment the 2Currently totaling about 30 i tems, inc lud ing cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, ba t ter ies, and refined vegetable oil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of destina- tion. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surren- dered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account GABON countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Direc- torate of Financial Ins t i tu t ions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months from receipt of the declaration, the Ministry may request the postpone- ment of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign in- vestments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as inves tmen ts implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Govern- men t, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans con- stituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Ga- bon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand- ing does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Ins t i tu- tions within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidi- aries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A m in imum of 10 percent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential trea tmen t. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies inves t ing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Min- ieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. On January 20, 1986 the previous system of a fixed peg to the pound sterling was abolished, and a floating exchange rate system was in troduced. Commercial banks are free to transact either among themselves or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The Central Bank conducts a fixing session with the participation of the commercial banks to set the exchange rate to value official foreign exchange transactions during the following week. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as au- thorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign currencies for all current transactions. The M in is try of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or pounds sterling from nonresident sources or in any other currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cote dTvo ire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Ni- geria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by residents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened w i thout reference to the Central Bank when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Designated external accounts may be credited with paymen ts from residents of other countries, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the bank ing system of other currencies. They may be debited for any payment to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other currencies. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. All other imports are freely permitted under open general licenses. Commercial banks are free to make paymen ts for all imports, subject to evidence of shipment. Advance pay- ments in respect of imports may be made freely, provided that commercial banks are satisfied with the bona fide nature of such transactions. Payments for imports may be made in dalasis or pounds sterling to an External Account or in any other currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 6 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports made by the Governmen t, dip- lomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempted. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions are not restricted, provided that commercial banks are sat- isfied with documentary evidence that the payment is due. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for travel purposes and for making interest and profit remit- tances w i thout prior approval. A traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia do not have to declare their foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of forestry products is subject to prior authorization by the Forestry Department. The export of all other goods can generally be made without individual licenses, if settlement is made in accordance with pro- cedures laid down by the Central Bank. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is the sole exporter of ground- nut products, oil, palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Export proceeds must be received through a commercial bank w i th in six mon ths from the date of exportation in a convertible foreign currency or by trans- fers from a designated external account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to commercial banks. There is no restric- tion on the import of foreign currency notes, but the importation of Gambian currency notes is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital for the purpose of direct equity inves tment are not restricted, but must be reported to the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and international missions in The Gambia up to reasonable amoun ts. Loans and advances by commercial banks to nonresident companies are sub- ject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Gold The import of gold coin and bullion requires the approval of the Central Bank. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 20. An independen t ly floating in terbank ex- change market system was introduced, under which the commercial banks are free to transact either among themselves or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 20. All imports were permitted under open general licenses, with the exception of specified products whose importation is prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Commercial banks were permitted to make paymen ts for all imports against proof of sh ipmen t. Advance payments for imports were also permitted. Payments for Invisibles January 20. Limits on travel allowances were eliminated. Capital July 1. Limits were placed on the working balances of the banks, and any amount held by banks in excess of their limit was required to be sold in the interbank market or offered to the Central Bank. The banks were directed that the limit must be observed on a daily basis and reported to the Central Bank weekly. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1986} Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), whereby each coun- try maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other participating countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants are maintained within margins of 2.25 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or minus 6 percent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows:2 Specified Intervention Rates Per: Deutsche Mark Upper limit3 Lower limit3 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 4.787 26.400 30.030 2.6980 1.3460 86.78 5.007 27.615 31.41 2.8220 1.5175 90.770 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert with other participants to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. In principle, interventions are made in participating curren- cies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of 'The term "Germany" is used in this su rvey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). following the realignments within the EMS on January 12, 1987, these rates are as follows: Deutsche Mark Upper limit3 Lower limit3 Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 4.740 4.959 25.630 26.810 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 29.150 30.495 1 Irish pound 2.619 2.740 1,000 Italian lire 1.3065 1.4735 100 Netherlands guilders 86.780 90.770 3"Upper" and "lower" denote the most appreciated and the most depreciated rate of the deutsche ma rk, respectively. Frankfurt am Main.4 On December 31, 1986 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.9408 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Indus t ry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Mar- keting Organization, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 9,172 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: Commodities corresponding to some 120 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries in Country List C.5 The import of some 600 textile items (under the arrangements regarding international trade in textiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements of the EC with various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty (ECSC) and from Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EC covers about 1,700 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade trans- actions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject 4Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5Countries in List C are A lban ia, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traff ic; transactions with specified coun- tries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be car- ried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export noti- fication is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export decla- rations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all paymen ts. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are' required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 5), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of paymen ts for services rendered to nonresidents; however, receipts exceeding DM 2,000 on account of services have to be reported for statistical purposes. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely w i thout a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, including legally indepen- dent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; the right of foreign-owned banks to lead-manage foreign deutsche mark bond issues is contingent, however, on reciprocal lead-management rights of German-owned banks in the home countries of the foreign-owned banks operating in Germany. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed interest securities by residents to nonres iden ts. Nonres iden ts' direct invest- men ts in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for inves tment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requirements on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1986 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 11 percen t, 4.5 percen t, and 3.75 percent on demand, t ime, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are reinvested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonres iden ts. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonres iden ts, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfur t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 14 percent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs du ty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. On October 10, 1983 the multiple exchange rate system that was based on bonuses and surcharges applying to specified transactions at the rates of 750 percent and 990 percent of the official exchange rate of G 2.75 = US$1 and yielding exchange rates of G 23.375 = US$1 and G 29.975 = US$1 was abolished, and the exchange rate system was unified at the rate of G 30 - US$1. During 1985 the exchange rate of the cedi was adjusted three times, from G 50 to C 60 = US$1, for a cumulative depreciation of 16.7 percent. On January 13, 1986 the exchange rate was adjusted from C 60 = US$1 to C 90 - US$1, representing a depreciation of 33.3 percent. On September 19, 1986 Ghana introduced a dual ex- change rate system, under which the first window ex- change rate was fixed at C 90 per US$1, and the second window exchange rate was determined as the rate that equilibrates supply and demand in the weekly auction conducted by the Bank of Ghana .l Foreign exchange to cover debt-service paymen ts on official debt contracted before January 1, 1986, as well as imports of petroleum products and of essential drugs, is provided through the first window. Earnings from exports of cocoa and residual oil products are surrendered at the first window exchange rate. All other transactions are conducted through the second window. Foreign exchange auction is held once a week (on Friday). Successful bids must be at least the equivalent of US$500. Rates are quoted for certain other currencies,2 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain inconvertible currencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily, but are only applied to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted inconvertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean syli, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea- Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. The exchange rate in the second market was G 152 - US$1 on December 31, 1986. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on purchases and repurchases of foreign exchange related to travel, and on exchange purchases for education, medical treat- ment abroad, and for private outward transfers. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports and exports. Prior to the change in the licensing system on October 6, 1986, applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for ind iv idual import licenses had to be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. The Controller of Imports and Exports issued import licenses on the basis of an annual import program formulated and implemented by the Import Programming and Monitoring Committee (IPMC), comprising the Secretaries of Finance and Economic Planning, Indus tr ies, Agriculture, Trade, and Health, and the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, with the Coordinating Secretary as Chairman. Following the introduction of the foreign exchange auction system in September 1986, the licensing system was modified. Under the new system, three categories of licenses known as "A," "S," and "G" licenses are issued. (See Section on Imports and Import Payments, below.) Applications for "A" and "S" licenses must be submitted directly to the M in is try of Trade and Tourism. These licenses are valid for a period of six months. The "A" license permits the holder to bid for foreign exchange through the foreign exchange auction system and is issued solely for the importation of drugs and producer goods (i.e., raw ma- terials, spare parts, capital goods, and intermediate goods). The "S" license allows the holder to use his own foreign exchange resources to import goods. Such imports, how- ever, are undertaken under the existing special license regulations. Government organizations may apply for "G" licenses, but must submit their application to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism through their sector ministries as under the annual import programming. After the import program has been approved by the IPMC, the government organizations are allocated "G" licenses directly by the government. This license permits govern- ment organizations to use foreign exchange directly al- located by the Government outside the auction for the importation of goods and services. The "G" licenses are valid for a period of 12 months. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allo- cation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. •Effec t ive February 21, 1987, all foreign exchange transactions through the official banking system have been settled in accordance w i th the exchange rate determined in the weekly auction. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deu tsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries are made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA or state banks of the countries concerned.3 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral paymen ts agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West African States (for Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Convertible foreign currency accounts may be opened by resident and nonresident Ghanaians as well as non-Ghanaians at authorized foreign exchange dealer banks. Such accounts may be credited with foreign exchange earnings from all sources other than exports of goods and services originating from Ghana, agency com- missions, and discounts on imports into Ghana. Outward transfers of funds from these accounts do not require the approval of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their staffs. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for inward paymen ts, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settle- ments with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents— for example, certain types of capital proceeds —may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized paymen ts, including the purchase of approved securities. 3Ghana maintains operative bilateral paymen ts arrangements w i th Bu l- garia, the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 230 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Three types of import licenses, "A," "S," and "G" licenses are issued. "A" licenses, which permit the holder to bid for foreign exchange in foreign exchange auctions, are issued solely for the importation of drugs and producer goods (i.e., raw ma- terials, spare parts, capital goods, and general interme- diate goods). A license fee of 0.1 percent of the value of license is charged for each "A" license. "A" licenses are issued to all applicants, provided that they fulfill statutory obligations necessary for obtaining import li- censes; in particular, companies must possess a valid Tax Clearance Certificate and be current in their Social Se- curity contributions. "S" licenses are issued for the importation of all goods, except for prohibited goods and for goods on a negative list comprising beer and stout, cigarettes, asbestos or fiber cement roofing sheets, and asbestos or fiber cement pipes. Foreign exchange to cover imports under "S" licenses are not provided from the banking system; such imports must be covered with the importers' own foreign exchange resources. A 20 percent advanced income tax must be paid before an "S" license can be obtained, except for applicants who are assessed to be in good standing with the tax authorities and for importers who produce agriculture-related products. "G" licenses are issued to government organizations for the importation of essential goods and services. Foreign exchange to cover imports under "G" licenses is provided by the Bank of Ghana. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or for public sector im- ports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the product has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for pay- ment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any bilateral payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghanaian banks, and usually on a sight basis. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank draft unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies which inspect the goods and verify the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Most foreign exchange purchases for invisible payments are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent ad valorem, with the exception of invisible payments relating to imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buying commissions on imports is per- mitted within a limit of 3 percent of f.o.b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly doc- umen ted. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f .o .b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees and self-employed persons are normally limited to 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a max imum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family require- ments and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel, education, insurance prem iums, and subscriptions. Employees in the mining, t imber, fishing, petroleum, and banking industries are, however, offered a choice between two alternative facilities. Under one of these, they are allowed to transfer 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a max imum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of du ty. Under the other facility, when documentary evidence of their commitments outside Ghana can be produced in support of their applications, em- ployees can transfer up to 70 percent of their net annual earnings and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of du ty. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident compa- nies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. Foreign exchange is not provided for tourist travel, and foreign exchange for business travel is granted only in exceptional cases, with per diem allowances determined on a case-by-case basis. Resident travelers may take with them foreign currency notes equivalent to C 160, provided that not more than the equivalent of C 40 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian bank notes up to G 40 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Board, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exports of bauxite, gold, manganese, and timber are subject to a 6 percent export tax; for cocoa, the export tax is the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments GHANA to farmers together with operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the paymen ts. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports w i th in 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 20 percent of their export proceeds in accounts abroad for financing essential imports. How- ever, the retention ratio is 45 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 35 percent for the State Gold Mining Corporation, 35 percent for the Diamond Mar- keting Corporation, and 5 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from export of electricity are not required to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange acquired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent. The import of Ghanaian currency notes in excess of G 40 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require prior approval by the Ghana Inves tment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code. Under the Investment Code of 1981, approved invest- ments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such inves tmen ts. The Code stip- ulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Where there is a dispute over the amount of compensation, the dispute is settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation, for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Set- tlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghan- aian nationals are held in blocked, non-interest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. Under a supplementary Inves tment Code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided aimed at promoting foreign inves tmen ts that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the Code, which offers incentives and guarantees to encourage foreign invest- men ts in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a Minerals Code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties in respect of importation of plant, machinery, and equ ipmen t; (2) more favorable deprecia- tion or capital allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum requirement of investment capital to qualify under the Code is US$60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and US$100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are consid- ered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acqui- sition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Trans- actions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio invest- ments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Private sector and commercial bank borrowing require the ap- proval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at US$100,000 or more; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain guidelines by the Government. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval, and normally are limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to get external aid, such industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in addition to their regular retention accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credit and the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors the receipts and paymen ts out of these accounts. Such accounts have been established for the diamond sector as well as for the fishing and timber companies financed with suppliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities are not normally licensed. The import du ty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 13. The exchange rate of the cedi was changed from C 60 = US$1 to (L 90 = US$1. September 19. A dual exchange rate system was intro- duced, under which the exchange rate at the first window was maintained at C 90 per US$1, and the exchange rate in the second window market was freely determined in weekly foreign exchange auctions. Imports and Import Payments October 6. A new licensing system was introduced, under which licenses for imports of virtually all noncon- sumer goods by the private sector would be issued without restriction. Foreign exchange to pay for imports under "A" licenses can be obtained through weekly foreign exchange auctions. All goods, with the exception of prohibited goods, were allowed to be imported under "S" licenses, if payments are to be effected with importers' own foreign exchange resources. "G" licenses will be issued to government organizations under annual import programs. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The authorities of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma. On December 31, 1986 buying and selling rates in the in terbank market were Dr 138.344 and Dr 139.176, respectively, per US$1, which is the in te rven t ion cur- rency. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece (the central bank) and the authorized commercial banks participate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks may quote their own rates. The commercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions. Rates covering forward transactions are determined by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Bank of Greece. The Ministry of Trade is responsible for the policy concerning commodity imports and exports. The commercial banks are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports according to exchange control regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake trans- actions in foreign exchange for various categories of invisibles. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convert- ible drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Nonres iden ts may maintain accounts in Greece, as follows: 1. Deposits in Foreign Exchange under Legislation Decree No. 2687/53—Investment and Protection of For- eign Capital. Nonresidents may open time deposit ac- counts in foreign currencies for a m in imum period of six mon ths and with a m in imum amount in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000. Interest rates on these deposits are freely negotiable, but within limits according to maturity, with a max imum of 8 percent a 'Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Cyp rus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I r ish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, Portuguese es- cudos, Spanish pesetas, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. year. Principal and interest are freely transferable at maturity. 2. Deposit Accounts in Foreign Exchange. Nonresi- dents are permitted to open sight and time deposit accounts in foreign exchange. These deposits may be credited w i th: (1) imported foreign exchange, (2) nonres- idents' demands in foreign exchange for imports of goods and services in Greece, (3) transfers from similar nonres- ident accounts, and (4) accrued interest on these deposits. They may be debited w i th: (1) paymen ts to residents for exports of goods and services, (2) inves tmen ts and other paymen ts in Greece, (3) transfers to similar nonresident accounts, and (4) transfers abroad. The interest rate on sight deposits is 1.5 percent a year. This interest rate is freely negotiable when benefi- ciaries are international organizations in which Greece participates. Time deposits may be for a term of one day and over, while the interest rate is freely negotiable. 3. Deposit Accounts in Convertible Drachmas. Non- residents may open sight and time deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. These deposits may be credited w i th: (1) the drachma proceeds from imported foreign exchange or convertible drachmas, (2) nonresidents' de- mands in foreign exchange or convertible drachmas for imports of goods and services in Greece, (3) transfers from similar nonresident accounts, and (4) accrued inter- est on these deposits. They may be debited with: (1) paymen ts to residents for exports of goods and services, (2) inves tmen ts and other payments in Greece, (3) trans- fers to similar nonresident accounts, and (4) transfers abroad. The interest rate on sight deposits is 1.5 percent a year; the interest rate on time deposits whose terms range from one day to six mon ths, in amounts not exceeding the bank's total deposits in convertible drachmas, is freely negotiable. The commercial banks are allowed to purchase or sell foreign exchange from credit institutions abroad, against drachmas, for a time limit of one, two, and three months. 4. Deposits in Foreign Exchange. Greek citizens (in- cluding seamen) working abroad, certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad, and Greek nationals residing abroad may make, with funds originating abroad, deposits in foreign exchange. For deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling, the interest rates are freely determined by the banks, taking into account the interest rates applied by the Bank of Greece on the corresponding redeposits. For other currencies and for deposits of up to the equivalent of US$200,000, maximum interest rates are fixed by the Bank of Greece. The period and other terms of the deposits are freely determined by the commercial banks. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the annual interest rate is raised by 1.5 percentage points. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Greek citizens (including seamen) working abroad and Greek nationals residing abroad may open time deposit accounts in foreign exchange with the Mortgage Banks in Greece under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. These deposits are for inves tment in real estate and have the same rate of interest and terms as the above-mentioned deposit accounts. In this case depositors are entitled to loans in amoun ts depending on the ma tur i ty of the deposit, but not exceeding a limit of Dr 5 million. 5. Blocked Accounts. Claims by residents of EC coun- tries may not be deposited in Blocked Accoun ts if they relate to transactions that have been liberalized in ac- cordance with EC laws (that is, in cases where the transfer of funds to a claimant residing in an EC coun try is obligatory for the Bank of Greece). Claims of nonresidents (excluding EC residents) de- nominated in drachmas that are enforceable in Greece and do not derive from vo lun ta r i ly imported foreign currency and also similar claims of EC residents that do not relate to liberalized transactions mu st be deposited in Blocked Accoun ts and may be w i thd rawn only after prior approval by the Bank of Greece. Domestic bank notes in excess of Dr 3,000 brought in by foreign visitors must be credited to Blocked Accounts. The Bank of Greece approves the withdrawal of funds from Blocked Accounts for various purposes such as: (1) living expenses in Greece of the account holders and his fam i ly; (2) expenses for buy ing tickets for each visit to Greece by the account holder himself and his fam i ly; (3) expenses for paying taxes and lawyers' fees; (4) expenses for the maintenance of real estate; and (5) inves tmen ts in securities officially listed on the Athens Stock Exchange and purchase of real estate in Greece. Payments abroad out of Blocked Accounts held by residents of countries that have special reciprocal agree- men ts with Greece may be allowed for the following purposes: (1) deposits deriving exclusively from ren ts and not exceeding US$2,000 (or its equivalent) in each year; (2) deposits deriving exclusively from pensions and not exceeding a total of US$4,200 in each year, if the holder of the account took residence abroad before January 1, 1982; (3) various family obligations, such as hospital and medical expenses, expenses for the elderly, legal main- tenance, etc.; (4) compensations paid to war victims by foreign states; (5) salaries, foreign consu l tan ts' fees, compensations for accidents, e tc .; (6) d iv idends from postwar government loans and loans of public sector organizations officially listed on the Athens Stock Ex- change; and (7) dividends from shares officially listed on the A thens Stock Exchange, up to 6 percent of the ir stock exchange value but not exceeding Dr 150,000 a year. Blocked Accounts with commercial banks and credit institutions earn interest at the rate of 15 percent per annum. Resident Accounts Greek citizens have the option of opening foreign exchange accounts as long as the amount is earned as salary from work abroad, or as payment received for 234 services performed outside Greece, or as payment from other sources, such as legacies, dowries, etc. Residents of Greece and nonprof it legal entities under private law hav ing head offices in Greece may open deposit accounts in foreign exchange w i th funds from abroad, w i thout stating the ir origin. These could be either sight or time deposits for up to 12 mon ths. If the deposited amoun ts are up to the equ iva lent of US$50,000, the interest rates are determined by the Bank of Greece on the basis of the rates prevailing in international money marke ts; otherwise, they are freely negotiable. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to w i thdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the annual interest rate would be increased by 1.5 percentage po in ts. Imports and Import Payments Approval for imports is granted automatically by the commercial bank s, and it implies that the requ ired amount of foreign exchange will be made available. Import ap- provals may be obtained after shipment has taken place. Special import licenses are required for commodities on Lists A and B ( i .e ., tex t i les and iron and steel produc ts), which come from low cost countries; these commodities are under surveillance according to EC quotas. Settlement of the value of imported goods must take place w i th in 60 days of the date of arrival at the first Greek port. Special regulations govern imports of certain i tems, such as med ic ines, narcotics, and motion picture films. A temporary six-month advance deposit scheme was introduced according to the economic stabilization pro- gram of October 1985. This scheme requires importers to deposit with the intermediary banks amounts equal to either 40 percent or 80 percent of the c.i.f. value of certain categories of imports, other than raw materials.2 These deposits are to be redeposited w i th the Bank of Greece and are not to be redeemed before the expiration of the six-month period. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles require approval, which is granted automatically for expenses incidental to autho- rized transactions. Res iden ts traveling abroad for family reasons or tour ism are entitled once a year to the equ iv- alent of ECU 760 for travel to EC countries3 or the equ iva lent of US$250 for travel to all other countries. In add i t ion, persons trave l ing to Cyprus are entitled to an annual foreign exchange allowance equivalent to US$450. In lieu of th is allowance, travelers participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Travelers may also take with them a max imum of Dr 3,000 in Greek bank notes. In general, Greek residents are required to declare all domestic and foreign bank notes and other valuables taken with them when leaving Greece. 2The rates of these deposits were reduced to 20 percent and 40 percent, re spec t ive ly, as from February 1, 1987 and w i ll be abolished as from May 1, 1987. 3On Janua ry 1, 1987, the l im it was increased to ECU 800. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange for bus iness travel is granted subject to a certain m ax imum amount per day or per tr ip. The limits range from US$100-150 per day to US$1,000-3,000 a trip, depending on the professional category. These limits may be exceeded on approval by the Bank of Greece. For medical trea tment abroad, the necessary amoun ts in foreign exchange are made available, provided the re levant documen ta t ion for the expenses is subm i t ted. For undergraduate and graduate studies abroad, various amounts covering living expenses are granted, depending on the coun try of s tudy. In add i t ion, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition fees, books, etc. Nonres iden ts leaving Greece may take out up to US$500 or its equivalent in foreign bank no tes, or larger amoun ts provided they were declared upon en t ry and the duration of the visit was less than 12 mon th s; approval is required if the visit lasted over 12 mon th s. Paymen ts of in te res t, prof i ts, and d iv idends to residents of countries outside the EC are regulated as described below (see section on Capital). Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 90 days of the date of sh ipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may ex tend th is time limit by approving time se t t lement of the value of exports. Indus tr ial ex- porters can obtain subsidies in the form of in terest rebates on loans4 and income tax deductions. A general subsidy of 5 percent of the drachma value of export earnings is paid when export earnings are surrendered .5 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings represen t ing paymen ts for services must be surrendered w i th in 45 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from shipping are exempt from the surrender requ i remen ts, but shipowners mu st cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange earnings in to drachmas. Travelers may bring in a max imum of Dr 3,000 in Greek bank notes. Any surplus is deposited in a Blocked Account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or be spent in Greece to meet personal needs. Greek resi- dents re turn ing to Greece must declare the foreign ex- change in the ir possession if they wish to take it out on the ir next departure. Nonres ident trave lers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out sums in excess of US$500 or its equ iva len t. Capital Capital movemen ts between Greece and other EC countries are covered by the provisions of Presidential Decree 170/1986, wh ich permits the repatriation of the GREECE capital (as well as prof i ts, d iv idends, and capital gains) imported into Greece for the purpose of direct inves tment or purchase of securities listed on the A thens Stock Exchange. Only the au then t ic i ty of the transactions is examined. Direct inves tmen ts in Greece by non-EC res- idents are covered by Decision 825/1986 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, wh ich, assuming prior approval has been obtained from the Bank of Greece, provides for the repatriation of the related interest and dividend income and also, after a three-year period, of the imported capital and capital gains. Outward direct investments by residents, whether to the EC or other countries, require specific approval. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad, which are not in the nature of direct inve s tmen t, are generally subject to approval in order to secure repatriation of capital and interest. This is also true for other categories of capital inf lows (e.g., purchase of unlisted securities) where re- patriation is not normally perm i t ted. On the other hand, purchase of treasury bills and long-term government bonds is perm i t ted. Legislative Decree 2687/1953 provides various other incen t ives for inves t ing in Greece and places upper limits on the funds which foreign inves tors, who are not residents of the EC, can export annually to repatriate imported capital, in teres t, and d iv idends. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymous ly and w i thout any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import List F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to importers for distribution to jew- elers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported f ree ly, for other than commercial purposes, when no payment in foreign exchange is invo lved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon en t ry, in which case, they may be re- exported with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement May 6. The max imum spread between buy ing and selling rates offered by the commercial banks was set at the level of 4 percent, calculated on the fixing rates. Imports and Import Payments 4These rebates w i ll be gradua l ly e l im ina ted by Janua ry 1, 1990 for exports to EC coun t r ies and by 1992 for exports to non-EC countries. 5This rate was reduced to 3 percent as from Ap r il 1, 1987 and w i ll be e l im ina ted as from Janua ry 1, 1988. July 1. The regulatory tax on imported goods was reduced by 15 percent of the base rates applying on July 1, 1984. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exports and Export Proceeds February 13. Exports of arms and crude oil to South Africa were prohibited. June 5. The subsidy received by exporters was reduced from 6 percent to 5 percent of the drachma value of export earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles January 13. Proceeds from tourists were required to be surrendered within 45 days of receipt. Capital May 19. All restrictions applying to residents of other EC countries on the liquidation of investments and the repatriation of profits and dividends on such inves tmen ts were abolished. July 25. Upon specific approval of the Bank of Greece, direct investments by non-EC residents in Greece may be accorded treatment similar to those applicable to EC residents. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 2 percent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is admin- istered by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The ex- change control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in Eastern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country con- cerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts are maintained in Eastern Car- ibbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on Ex- ternal Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to au- thorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts. Such accounts may be freely debited, but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported. Certain other commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions and require an import license. Payments for documented imports are free of restric- tions. Payments for other authorized imports are permit- ted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance payments for imports also require prior approval by this Ministry. Imports of equipment, spare parts, and raw materials for the manufacture of approved goods are exempted from import duties. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for educa- tion, medical treatment, gifts, family maintenance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, proceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Author- ity has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$5,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may export any foreign currency previously brought in with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period from the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in Eastern Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to non- residents, require exchange control approval, which nor- mally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration pur- poses. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent resi- dence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such invest- ment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The re- patriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the fi- nancing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 28. The foreign exchange tax levied on sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks was reduced from 5 percent to 2 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 10. The import license requirement was re- moved for a number of consumer goods. Exports and Export Proceeds March 13. The export du ty levied on major export commodities was abolished. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains a three-tier exchange rate system: in the "official" market, the exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of Q 1 = US$1; in the "regulated" market, the rate is in principle adjusted from time to time by the Monetary Board, taking into consideration, inter alia, developments in the net international reserves of the Bank of Guatemala and movements of the exchange rate in the third market. On December 31, 1986 the exchange rate in the regulated market was Q 2.50 = US$1. In the third, or "banking" market, the rate is determined by demand and supply conditions in the market, subject to a maximum band of Q 3 set by the Monetary Board. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates in the banking market were Q 2.59 and Q 2.61 per US$1, respectively. The official market exchange rate applies only to the service of external public debt and registered private debt disbursed prior to June 4, 1986 and to certain imports for the manufacture of generic drugs. The regulated market handles most trade and capital transactions. Through the regulated market are channeled, on the receipts side, all exports to countries outside Central America, about 60 percent of exports to Central America, official capital inflows, and inflows from registered private borrowing; and, on the paymen ts side, all imports, excluding a few that are considered to be of relatively low priority, and service payments on public and registered private debt disbursed after June 4, 1986. All remaining transactions, which include a few imports considered to be of relatively low priority, about 30 percent of exports to Central America, invisibles not included in the other two markets, private transfers, and private capital not registered with the Bank of Guatemala, are channeled through the banking market. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies' are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. A tax is levied on all exports except petroleum, with different rates for different categories of exports which vary in proportion to their international prices. The export tax is in practice collected at the time of exchange surrender. On January 27, 1947 Guatemala formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Emergency 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Regime for controlling international transfers. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Essential payments in foreign currency must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Department; banks participating in the system may authorize some foreign payments under powers delegated by the Bank of Guatemala. Exports of goods and services must be reg- istered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee the repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect payments. to external Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Trade transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Only certain imports for the manufacture of generic drugs qualify for foreign exchange at the official market rate of Q 1 - US$1. All other imports are effected at the regulated market exchange rate except certain imports considered to be of low priority, which are effected through the banking market. Imports of goods from Nicaragua through barter op- erations approved by the Bank of Guatemala require registration with the Ministry of Economy. Import licens- es issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, pou l try, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Imports of cacao are prohibited from all sources. Imports from Honduras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. All merchandise imports must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department or one of the authorized banks (imports from El Salvador and Costa Rica, which are covered by the General Treaty for Economic Inte- gration of Central America, are exempt from this require- men t); the Bank of Guatemala will issue foreign exchange licenses either against letters of credit and prepayments or against original bills of lading and invoices with statistical information consistent with the import regis- tration. Except in the case of imports made directly by authorized banks on behalf of importers with letters of credit or trade credits, a 50 percent guarantee deposit, to be made at the time of the request for foreign exchange, is required in the case of prepayments for imports. Deposits may be made in cash, bank guarantees, or government bonds and are refundable when the Bank of Guatemala has received from the importer a document 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA issued by customs verifying the arrival of the merchandise. In the case of imports made through particular letters of credit, a minimum of 60 percent guarantee deposit is required, but imports made through credit lines are exempted. Requests for payments by the public sector are exempted from this purchase requirement. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Interest payments on external public and registered private debt disbursed prior to June 4, 1986 are effected at the official market exchange rate of Q 1 = US$1, while interest payments on such debt disbursed after June 4, 1986 are effected at the regulated market exchange rate. All other current invisibles transactions can be effected without limit through the banking market. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within one-and-a-half to three months of the date of issuance. All exchange proceeds from exports outside of Central America are converted at the regulated market exchange rate. In the case of exports destined for Central America, about 60 percent of the proceeds is surrendered in the regulated market while the rest is channeled through the banking market. Capital Principal payments on external public debt and regis- tered private debt disbursed prior to June 4, 1986 are effected at the official market rate of Q 1 = US$1. All public sector and registered private capital inflows and principal payments on external debt and registered private debt disbursed after June 4, 1986 are conducted through the regulated market. All other capital transactions take place at the rate in the banking market without limitations. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the 240 Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement June 4. The three-tier exchange rate system was re- structured, involving an effective depreciation of the weighted average value of the quetzal to about Q 2.3 per US$1 from about Q 1.9 per US$1 under the previous system. Under the new exchange arrangement, the scope of the official market was reduced, and the previous auction market was replaced with a regulated market having wider coverage. The official market, which pre- viously handled about 55 percent of total exports and about 35 percent of total imports, henceforth applied only to the servicing of external public debt and private debt (registered with or guaranteed by the Bank of Guatemala) disbursed before the new arrangement came into effect, and to certain imports for the manufacture of generic drugs. The newly established regulated market applied to most trade and capital transactions, and the banking market was maintained for imports considered to be of relatively low priority, certain exports to Central America, invisibles, private transfers, and private capital not reg- istered with the Bank of Guatemala. June 4. The 3.5 percent exchange tax that applied to certain trade and invisible transactions was eliminated. Prescription of Currency June 6. Guatemala withdrew temporarily from the Central American Clearing House. Henceforth, specified exports to and imports from other Central American countries must be negotiated in U.S. dollars through the regulated market. In the case of trade transactions not required to be channeled through the regulated market, payments and receipts can be negotiated either in the banking market or through other channels outside the banking system. October 2. The Monetary Board, by Resolution No. 203-86, ratified the Central American Monetary Coun- cil Resolution No. CMCA-R6/158/86, dated August 20, 1986, regarding Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA). Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Central American Common External Tariff was reformed. The reforms included the conversion of specific import taxes to their ad valorem equivalents, the replacement of the regional Nomenclatura Arancelaria Uniforme para Centro America (NAUCA) tariff classifi- cation by a new classification based on the Brussels Nomenclature, and the reduction of nominal tariff rate for certain items, together with the elimination of tariff exemptions. June 5. The guarantee deposit requirement for import prepayments not involving letters of credit financing was increased from 25 percent to 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 13. Imports of vegetables, fertilizers, and seeds were shifted from the banking market to the regulated market. November 20. Imports of spare parts for capital goods were shifted from the banking market to the regulated market. December 24. Imports of certain raw materials, milk, perfume, and shellfish were shifted from the banking market to the regulated market. Exports and Export Proceeds June 5. A tax was introduced on all exports, except petroleum. The export tax is applied to the gross value GUATEMALA of export sales, with different rates for different categories of exports, which vary in proportion to international prices; tax rates for bananas and meat are set in specific terms. At international prices prevailing at the time of the introduction of the tax, the tax rates were as follows: coffee, 27 percent; sugar to U.S. market, 27 percent; cardamom, 22 percent; bananas, 16 percent; nontradi- tional exports and exports to Central America, 4 percent; and cotton, meat, and nonquota sugar, zero. In practice, the export tax is collected at the time of exchange surrender. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, with the rate vis-a-vis the U .S. dollar set in weekly auctions. At the auction, the private sector and public enterprises, through the intermediation of commercial banks, may sell and purchase foreign exchange for eligible transactions (most imports and airline tickets). All other public sector trans- actions take place at the latest auction rate. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar; the rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of their U.S. dollar rates in international marke ts. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. Settlements under the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China are effected in renm inbi at the rate resulting from the current GF/U.S. dollar and U.S. dollar/Y rates. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Pres- idency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained w i th respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established unde r, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Ben in, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauri- tania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated ''convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts Guinean residents may open deposit accounts in foreign currency with local commercial banks. Use of drawings from these accounts is limited to import financing and payments for specified services. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonres- ident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies, and 'Guinea ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th the People's Republic of China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all but the agreement w i th China are inoperative. 242 Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Almost all products may be freely imported (except certain alcoholic beverages, armaments, and narcotics) without a license. Requests for foreign exchange are submitted through commercial banks to the weekly auc- tion, accompanied by a description of the goods to be imported, for verification of eligibility and for statistical purposes. Official verification with respect to the quan t i ty, qua l i ty, and price is required for all imports. Certain imports are effected outside the auction sys tem. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources -of Guinea and covers mainly imports by three "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Com- pany; the Guinea Bauxite Company; and AREDOR, the diamond company) and foreign embassies. All commodities are subject to import tariffs as follows: rice is subject to a zero tariff; a 5 percent tariff is levied on certain primary foodstuffs, including edible oils, wheat flour, sugar, meat, and fowl; all other imports are subject to a 10 percent tariff. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxu ry goods. The import tariff payable by two mixed enterprises in the mining sector is subject to special agreements. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require the authorization of the Central Bank. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import opera- tion. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no official exchange allocation for tourist or business travel other than for airline tickets; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of US$60 a day. An exchange allocation is granted for pilgrimages up to a prescribed limit. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is subm i t ted, residents may be granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or they may be permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to mon th ly amounts determined on the merits of the case; for officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, that is, US$100 a mon th, but students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to US$150. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Inves tment Law of 1985 guarantees that most prof i ts on approved foreign inves tmen ts may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted may vary de- pending on the agreement concluded be tween the enter- prise concerned and the Governmen t. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad through the official market 40 percent of their net mon th ly salaries, and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 percent of their net mon th ly salaries on the same basis. The export of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require domiciliation w i th a commercial bank and filing of export description in order to (1) permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e .g ., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the vo lume of bauxite and alumina exported); (2) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consump t ion; and (3) p revent the export of capital. For the following commodities, special authorization from designated agencies is required: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic in teres t, jewe l ry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer priv- ileges related to the quan t i ty of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fru i ts exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to retain the ir export proceeds abroad, to pay for the ir imports and operating require- men ts, and to service the ir external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles are requ ired to be surrendered. The import of foreign bank notes and trave ler's checks is permitted free ly, subject to declaration on en t ry; however, both must be surrendered by residents w i th in 15 days after en t ry to commercial banks w i th an option for deposit in foreign exchange accounts. Resident trav- elers may take out foreign exchange up to US$500. Nonres ident travelers may re-export the foreign exchange declared upon en t ry. The import of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean na- tionals through the official market are prohibited. GUINEA The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign inves tmen ts in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs t rea tment applicable to foreign inves tmen ts and for the transfer of prof i ts, in teres t, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such inves tmen ts. Small- and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is invested over a three-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of eight to ten years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term inves tmen ts of par- ticular importance to the economy. The m in imum foreign inves tment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have controlling interests in enterprises requiring foreign inves tment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold Guinea has four issues of commemorative gold coin, which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than artisanal gold or jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 6. The official exchange rate (first window) was changed from GS 24.6853 = SDR 1 to GF 300 = US$1, with the Guinean franc (GF) replacing the Guinean Syli (GS) at par. Pending the start of the auction market, the exchange rate in the second market was changed from GS 36 - F 1 to GF 340 - US$1. January 28. The exchange rate in the second market hencefor th was de term ined at the weekly auction. June 1. The exchange markets were un i f ied; the "first window" was eliminated, and the weekly auction rate was made applicable to all transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 6. Import licenses were abolished and imports were made subject to authorization on ly. Foreign ex- change for imports was made available through the auction marke t. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso. Guinea-Bissau follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Guinea- Bissau peso in terms of the SDR is adjusted at relatively short intervals on the basis of estimated domestic price developments. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within margins of 2.25 percent of the SDR rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 232.00 and PG 232.86, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank). Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings are to be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Algeria, but this agreement has been inoperative since 1981. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism in line with availability of foreign exchange and on the basis of a program agreed between the central bank and the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Li- censes are valid for the period of the import transaction. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank within 15 days. Only importers registered with the Min- istry of Commerce and Tourism may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and value (c.i.f. and f.o.b.) of the product imported, and a separate license is required for each product. Retail traders receive imported products in proportion to their exports of agricultural products, and private exporters of nontraditional products are authorized to use up to 50 percent of their foreign 244 exchange receipts to pay for merchandise imports. Li- censes for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided within 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of cereals, petroleum products, and pesticides are state monopolies. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. Foreign exchange allocations for many payments for invisibles, including those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension payments are authorized in accordance with specific criteria. Al- though no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. Airline companies may transfer in foreign exchange the difference between their payments and receipts in Guinea- Bissau pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to the equivalent of PG 50,000 a trip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to the equivalent of PG 17,100 each month (PG 13,800 for high school students). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 80,000. Remittances to close relatives (parents and children) living abroad are permitted. Foreign travelers may take out any remaining foreign currency declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain export licenses, which are granted automat- ically in most cases. Until August 1986, exports of groundnuts and cashew nu ts were reserved for the Gov- ernment and were effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMIM. Other products exported solely by the Government included palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet flooring. On August 13, 1986 the Government authorized the private sector to engage in exporting any product. Private exporters of traditional products can retain up to 50 percent of their receipts to pay for merchandise imports. Private exporters of nontraditional products are author- ized to use up to the equivalent of their total foreign exchange receipts, less an export duty to pay for mer- chandise imports. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 percent, and certain exports are also subject to export taxes. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. A special regime applies to exports destined for countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the In- vestment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, which is being reviewed, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigration are authorized by the "tran- sitory norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. GUINEA-BISSAU Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Head of State and the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments August 13. The private sector was permitted to freely engage in the importation of any good, with the exception of cereals, petroleum products, and pesticides. Exports and Export Proceeds August 13. The private sector was permitted to engage in the export activity of both traditional and nontraditional products. Exports remain subject to licensing. Exporters of traditional products may retain up to the equivalent of 50 percent of the value of their exports to finance their imports, and exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to the equivalent of the total value of goods exported, less the relevant export du ty. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, the Japanese yen, the French franc, and the Netherlands guilder. The external value of the Guyana dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is announced on a weekly basis.1 Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at different rates on the purchase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection is responsible for issuing import and export licenses, but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized paymen ts, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency3 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. !On January 19, 1987 the central rate for the Guyana dollar was changed from G$4.40 = US$1 to G$10.0 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all foreign exchange transactions, with the exception of the purchase of gold, which is effected at an imp l ic it rate of G$14.0 = US$1, and certain transactions conducted at the commercial banks. Since February 1, 1987, the commercial banks have been permitted to purchase and sell foreign exchange for certain transactions at a market-determined exchange rate. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 3Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 246 There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any coun try, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized paymen ts, including the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides an exchange guarantee for the deposits constituted before the deval- uation of January 1984, but the deposits constituted after the devaluation are not guaranteed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports of certain other commodities are also pro- hibited from all sources. Permissible imports are subject to individual licensing, but the following commodities are exempted: passengers' baggage, household effects and personal effects, bona fide patterns and samples that have a stipulated f.o.b. value, parcel post items of a certain value imported by individuals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. In addition, from May 1, 1982 a scheme was to be introduced under which a manufacturer would be permitted to import spare parts up to c.i.f. value of G$5,000 and any items of equipment or machinery up to c.i.f. value of G$10,000 without having to apply for an import license, provided that no foreign exchange from Guyana would be required to pay for the imports. So far, however, the scheme has not become operational. An import license is granted on a relatively free but priority basis as follows: (1) raw materials for the man- ufacture of essential items; (2) essential items; (3) raw materials for manufac turers serving the export markets and the essential services in indus try; (4) equipment and materials for sawmills in the timber indus t ry; (5) com- modities for hatcheries; (6) spare parts; (7) petroleum products; (8) importation by international organizations and diplomatic personnel; and (9) drugs. However, an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution application for an import license will not normally be approved for commodities when similar ones are produced locally and at reasonable levels to supply domestic needs or sustain exportation. Public sector corporations have a monopoly over the importation of specified commodities from all sources. Import licenses are issued in respect of certain specified commodities only to the government corporation that has been identified to procure them centrally. When the responsibility of handling imports of any commodity has been given to a single government agency with a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agencies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. A similar course of action is adopted when standardization of commodities is involved. As a general rule, licenses are issued only to government corporations for the pro- curement of supplies for the retail and distributive sectors of the economy on a national, rather than a local, basis. Licenses are not normally made available to private sector concerns or individuals for goods to be disposed of by retail trade, other than to dealers in spare parts. Import licenses continue to be approved for specialized require- ments of government and private concerns connected with sugar, bauxite, rice, timber, and manufacturing industries, as the case may be. There are no import quotas, but the granting of import licenses is subject in large measure to the availability of foreign exchange. In general, applications for licenses not involving use of official foreign exchange ( i .e . ," no - funds '' licenses) are granted on a relatively liberal basis; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Applications for no-funds licenses for imports of produc- tion inputs by local companies able to arrange their own financing abroad are granted free ly. All applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in Blocked Accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require ap- proval, which, except for tourist travel, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is invo lved. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is G$200 a person and is not cumulative. The allocation for education depends on each circumstance and is granted in terms of foreign currency needs. Resident and nonres- ident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$50 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of up to G$60 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may, within one month of their last en try, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon en try. GUYANA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and alumina, only by the Guyana Mining Enter- prise Limited. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 3), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The retention quotas amount to 15 percent for sugar, gold mining, fishing, and shrimping sectors, and vary between 15 per- cent and 40 percent for manufactured exports by the private sector. Foreign exchange thus retained can be used relatively liberally for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 3) received on ac- count of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is gov- erned by the Private Inves tment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new inves tmen ts at the time of inves tment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remitted, and that upon liquidation of the inves tmen t, the proceeds, including any capital increments after pay- ment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 3) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a family un i t; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a family un it at the time of emigration, and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are en- couraged to borrow abroad for the financing of specific 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA projects and in some instances for working capital pur- poses. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Govern- ment Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, without special permis- sion. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic indus try. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$2,000, G$ 1,500, and C$500, for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement September I. The exchange rate applicable to gold purchases was changed from G$6.03 = US$1 to G$14.0 = US$1. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, the parity of which is defined in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the relationship of G 5 = US$1. Both the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 - US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Sales of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.2 percent. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 22, 1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank), and exchange transactions are imple- mented by this Bank and certain commercial banks. The tax code provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank es- tablished in Haiti. Aside from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations pre- scribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain consumer goods is regulated by an order of July 10, 1986. Under this regulation, 35 import items are subject to license restrictions, as against 111 items under the previous order of November 3, 1982. Effec t ive ly, quantitative import restrictions apply to only four items (cement, rice, sugar, and wheat) on which the Government maintains a monopoly. Other licensing re- quirements are administered flexibly. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus try is empowered to endorse quotas on specific items only if an increase in the supply of these items would endanger local production. The importation of used automobiles is subject to the requirement that the vehicle is no more than five years old and has been owned by the importer for a m in imum of two years. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of specified types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. On July 10, 1986 quantitative restrictions on 76 items were replaced by ad valorem tariffs averaging 20 per- cent, and the majority of specific tariffs were replaced by ad valorem tariffs. Ad valorem tariffs averaging 20 percent (with only a few tariffs set higher than 40 percent) replaced the previous system of quotas and specific tariffs on the majority of import items. A consular fee of 2 percent is payable on all imports in the country of origin except for materials required by certain export industries. A sales tax of 10 percent is applied on the value of imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. A m in imum of 50 percent of foreign exchange proceeds from all exports is required to be held at the commercial banks, to be used for oil imports and debt service payments under the supervision of the central bank. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. Under a law published on June 4, 1984, the Customs Administration will refuse export approval unless such drafts are cleared by the central bank. A law on Aug- ust 2, 1984 set export duties on light and natural coffee at 19 percent and 24 percent, respectively, and required coffee exporters to declare the volume of their outstanding coffee stock. Effective October 1, 1986, coffee export duties were reduced to 10 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 75 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of inter- national organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports of capital may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decrees of March 13, 1963, October 8, 1969, and December 31, 1984, and requires prior government approval. Permission is normally not granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities to local customers in the form of domestic assets. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to pur- chase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coin, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorse- ment by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an im- port license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1986 Import and Import Payments July 10. The number of import items subject to licenses was reduced from 111 to 35. Effectively, quantitative import restrictions apply only to items on which the Government as a monopoly (cement, rice, sugar, and wheat), while other licensing requirements are adminis- tered flexibly. July 10. The majority of import quotas and specific tariffs were replaced by ad valorem tariffs averaging 20 percent, with only a few tariffs set at rates higher than 40 percent. Export and Export Proceeds September 24. The export duties on coffee were reduced from an average of 21 percent to 10 percent. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respec- t ive ly, per US$1. Bank notes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Sal- vadoran colones are purchased at parity rates with a 1 percent commission and are sold at parity rates. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. Separate exchange rates arise from an arrange- ment permitting exporters to Costa Rica and El Salvador to transfer their foreign exchange proceeds to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950 Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Payments to and receipts from Costa Rica and El Salvador can be conducted through the Central American Clearing House; outstanding balances are required to be settled every six mon ths in U.S. dollars, and if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$12 million, immediate settlement is required. Trade transactions w i th Guatemala are carried out in U.S. dollars. Trade transactions with Nicaragua are settled on a three-month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement; if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate settlement is required. Paymen ts to and receipts from Colombia in respect of merchandise trade and invisibles are settled on a six-month basis in U .S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to and receipts from Mexico in respect of merchandise trade and invisibles are settled on a four-mon th ly basis in U .S. dollars under a similar agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Beginning August 1983, all lempira-denominated paymen ts amounting to at least L 1,500 processed through the Central American Clearing House in respect of trade and trade-related transactions with Mex ico, Colombia, and member countries of the Central American Common 'At the end of December 1986, the implicit value of the lempira in this market was L 2.4 per US$1. Market (CACM) require prior authorization from the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for all imports in excess of L 1,000 and are issued by the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE). Imports are categorized according to those that must be paid for in cash (mainly nonessential imports) and those that can be financed with credit. The purpose of the classification is to discourage the import of luxury goods by denying them foreign credit and limiting their access to domestic credit by setting portfolio ceilings. A priority scheme for the approval of import permits has been established on a temporary basis, with the intention of fu r ther restraining the demand for nonessen- tial imports; the scheme includes five categories with specified max imum waiting periods in each case. Im- porters using their own sources of foreign exchange can obtain import permits w i th in five days. However, there is also a list of selected items whose importation is subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Economy before an import permit can be authorized by DERFE, in order to provide protection for domestic industries. Imports may be checked for appropriate pricing, and import prepay- ments are subject to certain restrictions regarding the means of settlement. Central bank authorization is re- quired when paymen ts for imports by bank drafts exceed US$500; imports from CACM member countries in excess of US$25,000 are also subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Depending on the foreign exchange situation, the For- eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank may subject the allocation of foreign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of policy-determined priori- ties.2 A guarantee deposit of up to 100 percent is required against all requests to open sight letters of credit for import paymen ts; the deposits are held with commercial banks. Importers are also required to deposit with the Central Bank the lempira equivalent of requests for official foreign exchange that are not granted within a specified waiting period. Importation of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IHMA). Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs du ty. Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 35 percent. Certain goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 percent of the du ty and to a consular charge of 8 percent 2The Central Bank is authorized to allocate foreign exchange in ac- cordance w i th the following priorities: external financial paymen ts; es- sential consumer i tems; health products; educational materials; fuel and lubr ican ts; raw materials; agricultural and indus t r ial inpu t s; mach inery, equ ipmen t, and spare parts; and other goods and services. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS of the f.o.b. value. In addition, most imports are subject to an import service fee of 5 percent. There is a du ty- free zone in Puerto Cortes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Exports and Export Proceeds Any export w i th a value exceeding US$1,000 requires a license and is sub ject to prior authorization of the External Financing Department of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange proceeds must either be surrendered to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions, or be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commer- cial banks. Subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports. The withdrawal of dollar-denominated deposits is subject to compliance with the procedures on the use of foreign exchange. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made within 90 days following the negotiation of export documen ts. The banks are required to transfer 50 percent of their holdings of foreign exchange proceeds from exports to the Central Bank. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Ins t i tu te (!HCAFE). Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing, and lumber exports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). There is an export tax on bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, and minerals, and a general export du ty of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, min- erals, and nontraditional products. The export promotion law enables nontraditional exports to receive a credit against domestic taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are either subject to a surren- der requirement or must be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commercial banks. All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require prior approval of the Central Bank, and all buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. Within this limit, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and coins in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. No restrictions exist on the import of foreign bank notes by travelers. There are delays in the provision of foreign exchange for the transfers of dividends and profits. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and approval by the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and their transfer abroad for purposes of inves tment in mu tual f u n d s, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or inves tment abroad. The approval of the M in is try of Finance, the National Planning Council (CONSUPLANE ), 252 and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebtedness, whe ther for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of ex- ternal debt by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. External debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the servicing of duly registered and approved external debt only. The contracting of external financing must conform with specified priorities. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; the reserve requirement for certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and above is 20 percent, and 15 percent for savings deposits in foreign currency with savings and loan associations. Commercial banks are required to transfer foreign exchange holdings in excess of specified limits to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for ref in ing. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles con- taining gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted free ly. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1986 Prescription of Currency May 13. Honduras entered into a bilateral agreement with Nicaragua, under which trade transactions between the two countries will be conducted through a reciprocal credit arrangement; outstanding balances under the ar- rangement are required to be settled every three mon ths in U.S. dollars, and if the ou ts tand ing balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate settlement will be required. June 19. Following Guatemala's temporary withdrawal from the Central American Clearing House, effective June 6, 1986, Honduras adopted a paymen ts arrangement with Guatemala, under which trade transactions between the two countries are to be carried out in U.S. dollars; U .S. dollar deposits accumulated by Honduran exporters in respect of exports to Guatemala prior to June 6, 1986 were permitted to be utilized for import paymen ts from any country w i th in or outside of Central America. Imports and Import Payments December 1. Legislation on customs tariff reform was submitted to the cabinet for approval; the proposed reforms included the conversion of specific import taxes to their ad valorem equivalents and the replacement of the Nomenclatura Arancelaria Uniforme para Centro ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS America (NAUCA) tariff classification by a new classi- fication based on the Brussels Nomenclature. Exports and Export Proceeds May 15. All exporters became eligible, subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank, to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds for the purpose of financing their own imports; previously, only certain exporters (bananas, minerals, meat, and shrimp exporters) were authorized to retain a share of their foreign exchange proceeds, and the applicable ratio was up to 25 percent. July 18. Coffee exporters were granted a reduction and deferral of up to two years on export taxes applicable to the 1985/86 harvest and on unpaid export tax obligations outstanding as of that date. Capital September 25. Commercial banks were required to sell 50 percent of their holdings of foreign exchange proceeds from exports to the Central Bank; previously, the appli- cable ratio was 30 percent. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Starting on October 17, 1983, certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars and issued by the Government Exchange Fund, which the two note-issuing commercial banks are required to hold as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues, are issued only against payment of U.S. dollars at a fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 = US$1; payments by the Exchange Fund on surrender of certificates of indebted- ness to it when the note issue declines are also made in U.S. dollars at the same exchange rate. By arrangement, other licensed banks also pay or receive U.S. dollars at this same rate when they draw bank notes from or surrender them to the note-issuing banks. With these exceptions, the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar is freely determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market, though influenced by the fixed rate that applies to note-issue transactions. The authorities do, however, retain a capability to intervene in the market. On December 31, 1986 the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, was HK$7.7925 - US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from licensing control, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for hea l th, safety, or security reasons, and textiles that are subject to licensing control for surveillance reasons. Imports of rice are subject to a quota system operated by the Department of Trade. With a few exceptions, a trade 'Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a small number of items to enable Hong Kong to fu lf i ll its international obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to licensing control because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified coun- tries under which the export of certain textiles is re- stricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on paymen ts for or receipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bankno tes, travelers' checks, and other means of paymen t. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. A license is required before any company, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do banking business in Hong Kong. Subject to certain conditions, an overseas bank can establish a representative office in Hong Kong and may also register a subsidiary as a deposit-taking company. A deposit-taking company may not, however, conduct banking business or use the word "bank" in its title. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes During 1986 Exports and Export Proceeds A bilateral agreement concerning textile exports to the EEC within the framework of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) was concluded in September. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the for int against currencies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) ,1 A lban ia, and the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of ten currencies;2 the weights are adjusted annua l ly and reflect the currency composition of Hungary's foreign trade turnover (export receipts from and import paymen ts to) the nonrub le cu r rency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular in terva ls, notably on the basis of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of in f la t ion. Exchange rates are quoted on a daily basis by the National Bank of Hungary for 20 conver t ib le currencies3 and the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buy ing and selling rates are set w i th a spread of !/io of 1 percent around the middle rate for each currency .4 Rates for other currencies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for currencies included in the basket to which the forint is pegged (w i th in margins of 1 percent) are based on the day's exchange rates in major interna- tional markets. The buy ing and selling rates for spot transactions in U .S. dollars on December 31, 1986 were Ft 45.88 and Ft 45.973, respectively, per US$1.5 Official forward exchange rates are quoted by the National Bank of Hungary in respect of the above- mentioned 20 convertible currencies for wh ich exchange rates are quoted on a daily basis as well as the clearing currencies (U.S. dollar and Swiss f ranc) used under bilateral agreements. Forward rates are formed by ad- jus t ing the official foreign exchange m idpo int rates valid at a particular time for percentage d ifferen t ia ls set by the Bank variously for periods of 7-30 days, 90 days, 180 days, 270 days, and 360 days. The Bank is prepared to buy (or sell) currencies forward from (or to) enterprises The member coun tr ies of the CMEA are Bu lga r ia, Cuba, Czechoslo- vak ia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U .S .S .R ., and V iet Nam. 2Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. Each of these currencies accounts for at least 1 percent of foreign trade tu rnove r. Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Japanese y e n, Kuwa i ti d ina rs, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norwe- gian k rone r, pounds s te r l ing, Portuguese escudos, Span ish pesetas, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss f rancs, U .S. do l lars, and ECUs. In addition to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and t rave le r 's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas and Yugos lav d ina rs. 4The spread of 0.2 percent be tween buy ing and se l l ing rates applies to spot telegraphic transac t ions. For checks and bank no tes, a 6 percent spread is ma in ta ined between buy ing and se l l ing rates. E f fec t ive March 12, 1987, the va lue of the for int in terms of the basket was deva lued by 8 percen t. The b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for spot transac t ions in U.S. dollars fo l low ing th is ad ju s tm ent were Ft 48.2009 and Ft 48.2973, respec t ive ly, per US$1. hav ing foreign exchange receipts (or expend i tures) arising from foreign trade (and/or other foreign activities, such as tou r ism, transpor ta t ion, etc.). The largest portion of Hunga ry 's trade and financial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC), and with Al- bania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and the People's Republic of Kampuchea, in clearing rub les. Official ex- change rates for the transferab le ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted daily by the National Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of December 1986, the buy ing and selling rates for the forint against the transferable ruble were Ft 27.972 and Ft 28.028, respectively, per TR 1; the same rates applied to the clearing ruble.6 The National Bank also quotes rates of exchange for the for int against the cur- rencies of member coun tr ies of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements; for example, international t rave l, expenses of diplomatic representa- tion, and scholarships,7 and are based on multilateral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The au thor i ty for enforcement of foreign exchange regu la t ions is vested in the Minister of Finance. Related func t ions are exercised by the M in is ter through the National Bank, except for those fun c t ions reserved for the M in is ter himself or delegated to other ins t i tu t ions, such as the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank and the Central Corporation of Bank ing Companies. The National Bank may en t rust other agencies, such as bank ing ins t i tu t ions and travel agencies, with the performance of specified tasks. The Central European International Bank L td ., established jo in t ly by the National Bank and Western European and Japanese in teres ts, and City Bank Budapest are exempt from Hungarian foreign exchange regulations and restrictions in respect of authorized activities. Foreign trade is a state monopo ly. In practice, this means that commercial exports and imports may be effected only by economic enterprises authorized for this purpose. As from January 1, 1986, the authorization of foreign trading activities in convertible currencies has been largely liberalized. All foreign trading companies have been perm i t ted to trade (export and import) any produc t, except certain goods on the negative list. The foreign trading right is granted w i th in 45 days to all Effec t ive Ma rch 12, 1987, the va lue of the fo r int in te rms of transferable and clearing rub le was reva lued by 3.6 percent to Ft 26.9730 (buy ing) and Ft 27.0270 (se l l ing) per TR 1. 7 A comm iss ion of 3 percent applies to pu rchases from tou r is ts of bank notes in the currenc ies of member coun t r ies of the CMEA. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY producer enterprises for the export of their own products and for the import of the inpu ts necessary for their own production under simplified procedures. Organizations that do not in tend to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through authorized organizations. At the end of December 1986, 316 enterprises were autho- rized to engage in foreign trade on a permanent basis, of which 40 were specialized foreign trade organizations;8 the rest consisted of industrial enterprises, state fa rms, cooperatives, and domestic trading concerns. In addition, approvals for ad hoc foreign trade activities were granted in 1,200 cases during 1986. Authorization to en ter into foreign trade may thus be either general or specific. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hungary has multilateral and bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those agreements.9 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a con- vertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may main- tain convertible currency accounts at the National Bank, certain designated offices of the National Savings Bank, the Foreign Trade Bank, and the General Banking and Trust Co., L td .; only relatively large amoun ts may be placed with the National Bank. The accounts carry tax- free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in in terna- tional marke ts. Interest rates on nonres ident deposits at the National Savings Bank at the end of December 1986 ranged from 3.5 percent to 16.0 percent a year, depending on the currency and the ma tur i ty of the deposit and reflecting the financial market situation. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Unless specifically exempted, paymen ts in for int to nonresidents must be deposited in blocked forint accounts at the General Banking and Trust Company. Approval au thor i ty for withdrawals from blocked for int accounts has been delegated to the National Savings Bank for specified uses, for examp le, living expenses while trav- 8In addition, there were nine enterprises specializing in the represen- tation of foreign enterprises. 9At the end of December 1986, Hungary had bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th A lban ia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and the People's Republic of Kampuchea. Hungary also had trade agreements w i th bilateral p aym en ts f e a tu r es for cer ta in commod i t ies w i th A fghan i s tan, Bang ladesh, and Pakistan. Except for A lban ia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, the Lao People's Democra t ic Republic, and the People's Repub l ic of Kampuchea, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U .S. dollars. Se t t lemen ts w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina were in clearing Swiss f rancs; and w i th A lban ia, the Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and the People's Repub l ic of Kampuchea, in clearing rub le s. 256 eling in Hunga ry, medical expenses, and certain personal and family-related expenses; approval may be obtained on the basis of a verbal declaration. Requests for approval for other uses must be referred to the National Bank. All requests for reasonable purposes are granted. In general, no interest is paid on these accounts. Residents may also open accounts at designated offices of the National Savings Bank either in foreign currencies or in for int convertible into foreign currencies. Foreign exchange earned from creative, inven t ive, or artistic ac t iv i ty (including the royalties of authors, composers, and performing artists), honoraria, prizes, and awards, and specified fees may be deposited in these accounts. Convertible currency income or assets from these sources may be deposited in these accounts up to the extent of the first Ft 15,000 and up to 25 percent of the excess a year (in the case of inven tors, up to 30 percent of the fees from foreign sales of licenses and products under licenses). No limits apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of countries accounting in rubles. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem paymen ts, wages and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholarships, and artistic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convertible and CMEA currencies. No authorization is required for the use of accounts of residents in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign currencies. Withdrawals of convertible cur- rency balances can be made in any convertible or CMEA currency, in Yugoslav dinars, or in for in t. CMEA balances can only be w i thdrawn in a CMEA currency or in for in t. The deposits may be used for foreign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Konsumex and the Intertourist shops, or directly from abroad against payment in con- vertible currencies. Deposits of more than one-year ma- tur i ty earn interest at rates prevailing on international markets. Residents can also hold another category of accounts, called BC foreign currency accounts. Deposits in these accounts are limited to transfers from nonresidents to residents for the purpose of financing res iden ts' expenses while traveling abroad. Such deposits can be used in lieu of a non res iden t 's aff idav it in applying for a visitor's travel visa (see section on Paymen ts for and Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requirement. Licenses are issued by the Licensing De- partment of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. No fu r ther license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. Import licenses may be global or individual and, unless otherwise specified, are valid un t il the end of the calendar year for wh ich they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place w i th any country for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used primarily for bu lk imports of i tems, such as fertilizer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and steel products, wh ich are spread over the course of the year. Individual licenses permit transactions to take place only as specified. A fee equivalent to 1 percent of the forint value of licensed imports settled in convertible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import duties and a 1 percent customs fee upon customs clearance. An advance import deposit scheme introduced in 1967 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. Separately, a forint cover requirement applies to both imports and investment financing. In the case of imports, the importer is required to deposit the forint equivalent of the value of the letter of credit in a blocked non- interest-bearing account at the National Bank when open- ing a letter of credit. When importing on behalf of other end-users, foreign trade organizations can obtain payment from the end-user up to a max imum of 15 days before the due date for payment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or, for imports against documen ts or acceptance, to the date of paymen t. In the case of inves tment f inanc ing, a letter from the National Bank conf irm ing that financing for the project has been secured in fu ll is required before spending can be initiated. The related financing is frozen in a non-interest-bearing ac- count at the time the letter is issued by the National Bank. In the case of imported capital goods, the letter must be submitted to the licensing authority before the import license is issued. Apart from the import of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies, the licensing of imports was quasi- automatic and was used essentially for the purpose of ensuring that only authorized enterprises engaged in international trade. Beginning in September 1982, imports of several, mainly primary, products were made subject to quotas. In addition, the regime for imports settled in the convertible currencies was applied more restrictively: imports of capital goods, other imports by large and frequent importers in excess of specified quarterly limits, and all imports by other importers were subject to individual approval on the basis of the availability of foreign exchange. These restrictions were gradually lifted during the course of 1983 and 1984; by the end of 1984, the quasi-automatic licensing system in effect before September 1982 had been fu l ly restored. Imports of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annually in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 1987 was set at US$170 million. Licenses against the quota are granted on an order-of- arrival basis, and unused allocations are not automatically added to the quota for the next year. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and ef- fected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post verification of com- pliance with the terms of the license is made by the foreign exchange authority twice a year. Certain imports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneco- nomic reasons. HUNGARY Hungary has been a member of the GATT since 1973. As part of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN), the arithmetic average tariff level applied on a most- favored-nation basis was reduced from 24.9 percent in 1979 to 16.1 percent as from January 1, 1987. Imports from the least-developed countries are du ty free. In general, returning Hungarian travelers may import, free of customs du ty, goods for noncommercial use up to a value of Ft 6,000. Re turn ing residents may import, free of customs du ty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings while stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, secur i ty, and other noneco- nomic reasons. Indirect taxes on exports settled in con- vertible currencies are refunded at a rate equivalent to 6 percent of value. In addition, an export subsidy may be applied to exports of agricultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies, amounting to not more than 28 percent of the value of the agricultural raw material content of these exports. The tax re fund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice va lue. Most trade w i th member countries of the CMEA, Albania, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, the Lao People's Republic, and the People's Republic of Kampuchea is conducted under bilateral agreements. Trade w i th in this framework takes place at prices fixed in the annual bilateral agreements, on the basis of quotas representing delivery obligations, with determined con- ditions of delivery. Subsidies may be paid to compensate exporting enterprises for losses incurred if such exports are required for the fu l f i l lment of the agreements' obligations. All foreign assets and currencies must be declared and all foreign exchange assets must be sold to the National Bank of Hungary, unless otherwise exempted. Declara- tion must be made w i th in eight days, but the length of time allowed for repatriation depends on the nature of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is generally exempt from the obligation to surrender its foreign exchange assets to the National Bank. The National Savings Bank and the General Banking and Trust Company are exempt from the surrender requ irement in certain cases; specific exemptions for ind iv idua ls are granted in respect of gifts received while traveling and used to cover living and shopping expenses while abroad, as well as for wages and salaries earned while working abroad w i th official permission, or from scholarships received from nonresi- dents. Receipts of foreign currency not exceeding Ft 2,000 (in bank notes only) a person are also generally exempt from the surrender requ iremen t. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, inc lud ing transportation and advertising, are freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or individual autho- rization by either the Ministry of Finance or other com- 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY petent au thor i ty. Foreign exchange for related paymen ts is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain general authorizations for transactions up to specified amoun ts in connection with their own activities. General authori- zation up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance, the chief control administra- tion of the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank. Permission for travel to countries outside the CMEA area is granted only upon evidence of means of support abroad. This requirement can be met in one of three ways: (1) if living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents, in which case an affidavit from the nonres- ident or the availability of sufficient funds in a resident BC account at Touring, Money Changing, Traveling and Shipping Co., Inc. (IBUSZ) is required; (2) if living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds in a convertible currency account or from a travel allowance obtained from the National Bank; or (3) if travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers under the first category are labeled "visitors," while travelers under the latter two categories are labeled "tourists." Permission for private travel may be obtained once a calendar year. Authorized tourist offices obtain annual foreign exchange allocations for granting allow- ances to tourist groups. Foreign exchange allowances for travel to countries outside the CMEA may be obtained from the National Bank once every third year. Individual allowances amount to Ft 16,500 a passport holder plus Ft 2,600 a child for children of less than 14 years of age traveling on a paren t's passport. Small amounts may also be granted on a case- by-case basis in excess of the basic allowance for personal reasons, for example, if certain additional transport must be paid for abroad. In general, transportation expenses for "tourists" can be settled in forint for Hungarian carriers or carriers participating in a pooling agreement of which the domestic carrier is a member. Transportation expenses for tourists can be settled in forint for any other carriers using the less expensive fares when the desti- nation of travel cannot be reached by the above-mentioned carriers. The same regulations apply to visitors when traveling by air or long-distance coach. In the case of tourists, a supplementary travel allowance may be ob- tained for travel by car to cover gasoline expenses up to a quota fixed for each coun try .10 Visitors may purchase foreign currencies up to Ft 2,400. For official and business travel, separate allowances are established by the Ministry of Finance for living expenses and accommodation. Limits for living expenses are applied strictly, while accommodation allowances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual reasonable costs. Compliance with these limits is administered by the enterprises or institutions themselves within their allo- cated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance, the chief control administration of the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank. No m in imum spending or conversion requirement ap- plies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, except in the case of visitors from Yugoslavia, who are required to convert the equivalent of Ft 760 a trip (Ft 380 for residents of the border area) when entering Hungary other than for business purposes. (Yugoslav citizens arriving with an authorized tourist group are, however, not covered by this regulation.) For travel between Hungary and Poland and between Hungary and Czechoslovakia, travelers are required to have in their possession specific m in imum amounts of the currency of their country of destination. Nonresidents may take out of the coun try foreign ex- change assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effec ts, without a license from the foreign ex- change authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. In addition, nonresidents may not take out of the country articles exceeding the value of Ft 3,000U (up to Ft 1,000 an article). Within the same overall limits, nonresidents from countries with which an agreement is in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the country gifts up to Ft 300 a person as well as purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certification of the nonres iden t's foreign ex- change authority. However, nonresidents may take out freely articles bought in shops designated for sales in convertible currencies. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange au thor i ty, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 400 a person, in denominations not exceeding Ft 100; the corresponding limit for nonresidents is Ft 100 per person. Limits of Ft 50 a person apply to both residents and nonresidents, not to exceed Ft 200 a mon th, in the case of border-zone traff ic. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: in addition to the Ft 400 that may be taken out of the country in forint and converted at the travel destination, residents traveling to CMEA countries are entitled to an annual allowance of Ft 20,000, for which they can buy the traveler's checks and bank notes of the country of destination. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the National Bank for the 10Effective March 12, 1987, foreign exchange allowances for travel to countries outside the CMEA have been increased by the rate of deva lua t ion. nln border t ra f f ic, the va lue may not exceed Ft 200 a mon th unless otherwise authorized under international agreement. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution relevant currency. A 4.5 percent commission is applied at the time of conversion. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of forint acquired by CMEA tourists into their own national currency is allowed. Tourists from the convertible cur- rency area can reconvert up to the equivalent of US$100, provided that the reconversion is for not more than half of the amount originally converted into fo r in t. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tu i t ion fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in jo int ven tu res, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign ins t i tu t ions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ven tu res may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of the ir income. Twen ty percent of wages earned by Hungarian private c i t izens work ing abroad must be transferred to Hungary and converted into for in t. Capital All foreign borrowing, excluding foreign borrowing on the basis of in tergovernmen tal agreements, requires the approval of the National Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, for examp le, when credits on favorable terms are guaranteed by the govern- ment of the exporter or when bankers' acceptances are provided on favorable terms. The requ iremen ts of the economy for foreign credit are met through direct foreign borrowing by the National Bank; the aim is to p revent Hungarian enterprises from c ircumven t ing the regulations of domestic credit policy by means of foreign resources. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection w i th foreign trade activities have been established jo in t ly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the National Bank. No license from the foreign exchange authority is required for commercial credits in compliance with the directives. Medium-term and long-term credits for the export of inves tment goods may be ex tended by exporting enter- prises w i th the authorization of the M in is ter of Foreign Trade. Negotiable export documen ts are discounted by the National Bank. These credits are refinanced by the National Bank from its own resources. Foreign inves tment in the form of jo int ven tu res with Hungarian enterprises may be established subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. Joint ven tu res may also be established in du ty - f ree zones. In both cases the jo int ven tu re is considered as a Hungarian legal en t i ty, but those in du ty - f ree zones are not subject to several regulations. Foreign participation is limited in general to 49 percent, but a higher proportion may be allowed in the bank ing and service sectors. In other sectors, foreign ma jor i ty requires special permission of the M in is ter of Finance. Machines and equ ipmen t, technical know-how, and pa ten ts may qualify as part of foreign inve s tmen t. The profit tax rate for jo int ven tu res in the produc t ion sphere and in the hotel building and hotel trade is 20 HUNGARY percent in the first five years of operation and 30 percent thereaf ter, provided that the equ i ty capital exceeds Ft 25 million and the foreign par tner's ownership exceeds 30 percen t; th is compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The re inves tment of profits is encour- aged by a profit tax cut of 75 percent if all profit is re inves ted, and 50 percent if one half is re inves ted. Joint ven tu res in preferred lines of production are exempted from the prof it tax for five years and pay 20 percent thereafter. Customs du t ies on real assets brought into jo int ven tu res can be deferred for five years. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of p ro f i ts or, in the case of liquidation of the jo int ven tu re, of the invested capital. In add i t ion, a guarantee may be obtained from the National Bank covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungarian bank ing ins t i tu t ions covering the fu l f i l lment of obligations of the Hungarian par tner. Foreign inves tment by resident economic organiza- tions, either by establishing subsidiaries or affiliates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the head of the competent sectoral au thor i ty. In add i t ion, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange au thor i ty. Except for gifts w i th a market value of up to Ft 800, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Gifts (movable property) from nonres iden ts in excess of Ft 25,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonres- idents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hungary, except in the form of inher i tance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain established cat- egories, such as inhe r i tances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity w i th other countries, subject to the control of the Central Corporation of Bank ing Companies. Emigrants may take out of the coun try up to Ft 60,000 an adult and Ft 30,000 a child, silver objects weighing no more than 1 kilogram, and gold and jewe l ry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonres iden ts, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonres ident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident blocked fo r int account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the National Bank and in concurrence with the competent au tho r i ty in the case of industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every k ind of gold coin m in ted prior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically au- thorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 26. The authorities modified the basket of currencies to which the exchange rate of the for int is pegged. The currencies in the basket were assigned weights based on Hunga ry 's total export and import paymen ts in convertible currencies. The Japanese yen was added to the baske t, increasing the number of currencies to ten, and the weight assigned to the U .S. dollar was moderately reduced. February 28. The for int was devalued against its basket of convertible currencies by 3 percent. June 3. The for int was devalued against its basket of convertible currencies by 1 percen t. July 15. The National Bank of Hungary widened the scope of its forward foreign exchange transactions to the clearing currencies (U .S. dollar and Swiss franc) used under bilateral paymen ts agreements. September 23. The forint was devalued against its basket of convertible currencies by 8 percen t. Administration of Control January 1. The authorities introduced fu r ther liberali- zation in foreign trade activities w i th the convertible currency area. Restrictions were eased on tradable prod- ucts and the activities of foreign trade organizations. Trading rights in the same products were widened among different producer companies, and general trading rights were granted to all of the 40 foreign trade enterprises. Foreign trade companies can export and import any product that is not included in the negative list. For producer enterprises w i th adequate staff, expertise, and facilities for foreign trade operations and an adequate l iqu id i ty pos i t ion, a simplified sys tem of application was introduced to obtain convertible currency export r igh ts for their own products and import rights for the ir inpu t s, provided that these goods are not on a negative list of strategically important products (minerals, energy, cer- eals, sugar, etc .), as published in the Foreign Trade Gazette. An accelerated procedure was introduced to permit the issue of such foreign trade licenses in 45 days. The period for the granting of a regular individually approved license for trade in all goods on the negative list was reduced from 90 days to 60 days. Imports and Import Payments August 1. Several customs regulations affec t ing private individuals were t igh tened. The in terval at which ind iv id- uals can import or receive cars as gifts was extended from three years to every five years, un less the cars are imported through the Konsumex foreign trade company. Small craf tsmen, retailers, artists, and members of eco- nomic partnerships and civil law companies were hence- for th allowed to bring in only the same quantity of mach inery and goods for processing as regular tourists. For such items received by these individuals as gifts from abroad, a cus toms d u ty of 30 percent was applied. The customs tax on the resale of items brought in from abroad by ind iv idua ls was raised from 60 percent to 80 percent of the profit from the sale. The customs preferences for f requent travelers and Hungarians res id ing abroad were curtailed. The customs processing fee was raised from 1 percent to 2 percent of the for int value of the merchandise. Payments for Invisibles April 15. The amount of domestic currency nonresidents may take out of the coun try w i thout a license was reduced from Ft 400 to Ft 100. September 23. Foreign exchange allowances for travel to countries ou ts ide the CMEA were increased to Ft 16,500 from Ft 15,200 a passport holder and to Ft 2,600 from Ft 2,400 a child for children less than 14 years of age. The limit on foreign currencies visitors can purchase was increased to Ft 2,400 from Ft 2,200. Proceeds from Invisibles April 15. The amount of domestic currency nonres iden ts may bring into the coun try w i thout a license was reduced from Ft 400 to Ft 100. Capital January I. Regulations concerning jo int ven tu res w i th foreign partners were modified to stimulate inf lows of direct inve s tment capital. The profit tax rate for jo int ven tures in the production sphere and in the hotel building and hotel trade was reduced from the generally applied 40 percent to 20 percent in the first five years of operation and 30 percent thereaf ter, provided that the equ i ty capital exceeds Ft 25 million and the foreign partner's ownersh ip exceeds 30 percen t. The re inves tment of profits was encouraged by a profit tax cut of 75 percent if all profit is re inves ted, and 50 percent if one half is re inves ted. Joint ven tu res in preferred lines of production were exemp ted from the profit tax for five years, and the tax rate thereafter was set at 20 percent. Customs duties on real assets brought into jo int ven tu res can be deferred for five years. Legal procedures, statistical reporting, and accounting rules for jo int ven tures and their access to foreign trade rights were simplified. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the exchange rate of which is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland, and official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted from time to t ime; on December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates were ISK 40.18 and ISK 40.30, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies' are based on the official rates for the U .S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The M in is try of Commerce, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export regulations and paymen ts for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of ex- change control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents from commercial transactions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Three commercial banks (the National Bank of Iceland, the Fisheries Bank of Iceland, and the Agricultural Bank of Iceland), previously the only fu l ly authorized banks, were joined in 1984 and 1985 by private banks and the major savings banks. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar, and with several other countries in Eastern and Southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U .S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts with the authorized banks: Foreign Accounts and Special 'Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Irish pound s, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized paymen ts due to nonresidents from res- iden ts. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for paymen ts to residents and may, w i thout a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U .S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.2 Special Accounts in k ronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited free ly w i th approved paymen ts from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license from any coun t ry; most imports are liberalized. The main commodities on the restricted list are petroleum products, f ish ing vessels, certain agricultural goods, and specified brooms and brushes. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, ma tches, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state-trading arrangements. Fresh vegetables, potatoes, and cut flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources, where a license is re- quired, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when the license is issued. Petroleum products and fishing vessels are subject to licensing, but no fee is assessed. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, but import documentation must be presented to one of the authorized banks to obtain foreign exchange. The goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the importer has acquired a permitted foreign credit, usually by accepting a bill of exchange issued by the seller. For imports that require an individual license, foreign ex- change is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for up to three mon ths from the date of shipment arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to about 2Residents who hold foreign cu r rency that they are not required to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accoun ts w i th Ice land ic banks. Exporters can s im i lar ly deposit, up to six mon ths, foreign exchange proceeds in identical accounts to meet foreign exchange outlays in the ir bus iness. Such accoun ts, denom ina ted in Danish kroner, deu tsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited w i th au thor ized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized paymen ts in foreign currencies. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND two thirds of the value of imports; the goods not listed are mainly certain building materials, household appli- ances, motor vehicles for personal use, and nonessential goods. Credits in excess of 3 mon ths and not exceeding 12 mon ths are permitted to be obtained in respect of some categories of goods and materials, for example, in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is leng thy. Foreign credits in excess of 12 mon ths are subject to government au- thorization issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Import documentation on credit terms must be presented to one of the authorized banks prior to customs clearance. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whe ther of imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax dependent on alcohol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, paymen ts to inter- national organizations, paymen ts for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. The authorized banks effect paymen ts free ly on most transactions on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 percent for all paymen ts for invisibles. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$1,650 a person for each trip abroad (US$820 for each child). Applications for foreign exchange for chartering of ships and aircraft, for major repairs of ships and aircraft, for transactions and transfers in con- nection with direct insurance, and for insurance opera- tions abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out ISK 8,000 in Icelandic bank notes in any denom ina t ions. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce. The ship- ping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surren- dered w i th in a period of 180 days from sh ipmen t. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities. Icelandic insurance companies that reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign ex- change earned from prem iums and indemnities and to use 262 it to pay reinsurance p rem iums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in Ice- landic bank notes up to ISK 8,000 in all denominations. Capital All inves tmen ts by nonresidents are subject to individ- ual approval. Rules concerning Icelandic jo int stock companies are laid down in Law No. 32/1978, which require the majority of the founders of a jo int stock company to have been domiciled in Iceland for the preceding two years. No conditions are imposed with regard to Icelandic nationality of the founde rs; but the right of foreigners to direct or own shares in jo int stock companies is governed by legal provisions that are dif- ferent for the various types of economic activity. The director or directors of the branch office must be domiciled in Iceland; and, as a rule, they must be Icelandic citizens. Participation by nonresidents in fishing, power, and min- ing industries is limited; a lum inum plants, which are wholly owned by nonresidents, are a special exception. Nonres iden t-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered; nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for such fund s, in wh ich case their retransfer abroad is pemitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and paymen ts. W i thout the approval of the Governmen t, residents may not obtain loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require indi- vidual approval. Direct inves tment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally perm i t ted. Portfolio inves tment abroad by residents is subject to license. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are subject to license and are allowed up to an annual ceiling. Icelandic emigrants may transfer up to ISK 250,000 a person at the time of departure. Half of their holdings, including proceeds of real estate, may be transferred upon presentation of evidence of permanent residency in a foreign coun t ry, and the remaining balances one year thereaf ter. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central Bank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 1. Customs duties on certain goods were re- duced. At the same time a special import tax on auto- mobiles was reduced to a range between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. In the course of 1986 a new price structure was introduced for wines and spirits, with the price dependent on alcohol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The basic allocation for tourist travel was raised from the equivalent of US$1,500 to the equivalent of US$1,650 a person for each trip abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds May 14. Export levies on fish products were abolished. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India ma in ta ins the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies w i th in margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the in te rven t ion currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Re- serve Bank of India; on December 30, 1986 they were Rs 19.21 buy ing and Rs 19.29 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any t ime, if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling w i th the Ind ian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Un ion (ACU ), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U .S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot ACU currencies and pounds sterling.2 The Reserve Bank per- mits authorized dealers and authorized money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U .S. dollar and pound sterling notes on the basis of a formu la fu rn i shed by the Bank. The Reserve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" exchange rates for the U .S. dollar and pound sterling at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank receipts under remittances on account of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Account Scheme. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided in to two groups, Group A cons is t ing of 20 listed currencies ,3 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currencies that are convertible in to any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Au- thorized dealers are also permitted to ma in ta in abroad balances and positions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral 'Bang ladesh, Bu rm a, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka. Though not one of the coun tr ies specified in th is con tex t, Nepal is also a member of the ACU. 2Since February 2, 1987, the Reserve Bank has started spot se l l ing of U.S. dollars. 3 Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Bahrain d ina r s, Belgian f rancs, Canadian do l lars, Danish k rone r, deu tsche ma rk, French f r an c s, Hong Kong dollars, Italian l ire, Japanese y en, Kuwa i ti d ina rs, Ma lays ian r ingg i t, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la rs. 264 Group.4 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad is prohibited. On December 30, 1986 market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were US$7.640 buy ing (clean) and US$7.585 selling, per Rs 100; and the Reserve Bank 's buy ing rates for U .S. dollars were US$7.64 spot and US$7.65, US$7.63, US$7.61, US$7.59, US$7.57, US$7.55, US$7.52, US$7.48, US$7.47, US$7.45, and US$7.43 per Rs 100 for buy ing forward (for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 mon th s' de l ive ry, respectively). The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to authorized dealers by purchases of pounds sterling for de l ivery on any day dur ing the f irst mon th, second mon th, etc., up to 9 mon ths' de l ivery initially (and extendable up to 12 mon ths), for purchases of U .S. dollars up to 12 mon ths, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day dur ing the first mon th, second mon th, and so on, up to the sixth mon th. Thus the forward contracts are on a mon th ly option basis, i.e., w i th options to deliver the amount on any day from the first to the last day of the month in wh ich contract is due for delivery. In addition, the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in French f rancs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, U .S. dollars, and U .A .E. d i rhams. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six mon ths on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Gove rnmen t, in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All proposals for foreign direct inve s tment in India are reviewed by the Foreign Inve s tment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the con t inuance of commercial, indus tr ia l, and trading activities in India of companies incorporated abroad, or w i th more than 40 percent nonresident in teres t, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, off ice, or other place of bus iness for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. "^Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Poland, Romania, and U .S .S .R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 4) and the Ex ternal Group of countries (all other countries). Paymen ts to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Ind ian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any perm i t ted cu r rency .5 Receipts from the Ex ternal Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any coun try in the group or in any permitted cu r rency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Gove rnment of India to the gove rnmen ts of certain foreign coun tr ies. In add i t ion, all paymen ts on account of current international transactions (other than trave l, export, and import transactions invo lv ing settle- ment on deferred payment terms, and imports into Bang- ladesh under the Wage Earners' Scheme) between India and other members of the ACU (see foo tno te 1), except Nepa l, are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Ind ians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Ind ian, Bhu tanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhu tan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonres ident accounts. The trea tment of these accounts distinguishes be tween banks and others. The accounts of banks are classified in to two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of coun tr ies and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited w i th paymen ts for impor ts, in te res t, d iv idends, and other authorized purposes; w i th authorized transfers from the 5A11 rem i t tances by nationals of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina to any coun t ry ou ts ide India and all rem i t tances to the People's Repub l ic of China by any person res ident in Ind i a, whe ther for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited w i th effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resump t ion of trade between Ind ia and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, rem i t tances ar is ing out of trade transac t ions are pe rm i t ted in con fo rm i ty w i th exchange control regu la t ions. A ll non-trade-related transac t ions w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina or nationals of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina con t inue to be p roh ib i ted, un less generally or spec i f ica l ly au tho r ized. Au thor ized dealers are pe rm i t ted to open rupee accoun ts on th e ir books in the names of their branches or correspondents in the People's Repub l ic of China or Pakistan w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek d irec t ion before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pak is tani or Chinese banks operating ou ts ide Pak is tan and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, respec t ive ly. Au tho r ized dealers may effect rem i t tances to Pakistan on behalf of p r iva te impor ters as in the case of impor ts from other coun t r ies; they also may effect certain types of personal rem i t tances in accordance w i th regu la t ions app l icab le to such rem i t tances; rem i t tances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. 6Howeve r, res iden ts of Nepal obtain the ir fore ign exchange requ i re- men ts from the Nepal Rastra Bank. INDIA nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks ), provided that both the transferor and the trans- feree accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other paymen ts to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonres ident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Nonres ident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same coun try or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the Ex ternal Group may be converted in to any per- mitted cu r rency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonres ident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited, w i thout prior approval, for payment of d iv idends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts prev ious ly debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonres ident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Cu r rency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of ma tu r i ty or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by non res iden ts, provided that the Corpo- ration certifies that prem iums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in Ind ia; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pens ions, provident f u n d s, gra- tu i t ies, bonuses from a former emp loyer, income tax r e fund s, e tc .; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits dur ing a mon th does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv idual credit is in excess of Rs 750. When the nonresident account holder is an Indian national or a person of Ind ian origin, credits on account of withdrawals or loans f rom, and maturity proceeds of inves tmen ts in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968; rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder; and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Un it Trust of India, are freely allowed. Ind ian emigrants may ma in ta in ordinary non- resident accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trus ts in wh ich at least 60 percent ownership or beneficial interest is held directly or indirectly but ultimately by nonresident Ind ians, and provided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from remittances abroad or from funds in India otherwise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of un i t s, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with f u n ds held in the account or by rem i t tance from abroad, and, in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were acquired with the approval of the Reserve Bank. The special regulations covering funds lodged in Na- tional Defense Remittance Scheme Special Accounts were abolished in April 1979, and such accounts are now treated as ordinary nonresident accounts. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of non- residents for (1) local disbursements other than for pay- men ts toward inves tmen ts in India and booking of inter- national passages, but transactions amounting to Rs 10,000 or more must be reported to the Reserve Bank on an ex post basis, and (2) paymen ts toward inves tmen ts in Un it Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Governmen t. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Ind ian nation- ality or origin resident outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to authorized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, all state cooperative banks and those urban cooperative banks having a m in imum working capital of Rs 100 million each and an "A" audit rating conferred by the Registrars of Cooperative Societies for at least two years are eligible to apply for authorization to maintain nonresident rupee accounts. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited w i th new funds remitted through banking channels from the coun try of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with income on autho- rized inves tmen ts. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disburse- men ts in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Un it Trust of India and transfers to other Nonresident (External) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities; but transfers of funds from an ind iv idual account to a similar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Invest- men ts in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and 266 is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from the wealth tax. Gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in the accounts are exempt from the gift tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amoun ts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which is free of income tax, wealth and gift tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denom- ination, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 em- powers the Central Government to prohibit, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under th is Ac t, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, which specifies items subject to controls. All imports require import licenses or a customs clearance permit unless otherwise ex- empted.7 Imports of gold, silver, currency notes, bank notes, and coin are controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Imports from Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of actual user licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Spe- cific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). There is a fu r ther classification of licenses as follows: Supplementary Licenses, Import Rep len ishment (REP) Licenses, Capital Goods Licenses, Advance Licenses, Special Import Licenses, Import/Export Passbook Li- censes, Special Imprest Import/Export Passbook Licen- ses, Imprest Licenses, and Additional Licenses. Licenses issued for capital goods are valid for 2 years, and all other licenses mentioned above are valid for 18 months. The Import Policy for fiscal years 1985/88, which came into effect on April 12, 1985, with its subsequent amend- ments, contains the policy governing imports. The import policy divides products into three basic categories: con- sumption goods; raw materials, components, consum- ables, tools, and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized; consumer durable items are not allowed to be imported except items that can be imported under the Personal Baggage Scheme by Indians returning from abroad.8 Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for indus try are classified into three categories: (1) limited permissible, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. There is also a list of ins trumen ts that are permissible for imports against licenses. All items not 7The exempted category inc ludes gove rnment imports under Open General License, relief supp l ies, and passenger baggage. 8Items that can be imported under the Personal Baggage Scheme inc lude air-conditioner un i t s, refrigerators, deep freezers, cooking ranges, washing mach ines, te lev is ion sets, tape recorders, record p layers, mov ie cameras and projectors, video cassettes, textile fabrics, cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution included on these lists are freely available for imports under Open General License (OGL). Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement may, during the first 12 mon ths after their return, import all raw materials except restricted (nonpermissible) items and canalized items under OGL, subject to a value limit for the purpose of setting up small industries. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of limited permissible items. All licenses to industry are issued against free foreign exchange. Special procedures apply to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are restricted, while other listed goods and capital goods required by returning Indians to set up small-scale industries may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential (essentiality certificate), unavailable from domestic sources (indigenous angle clearance), and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 2.5 million, that the importer has advertised his require- ments for a period of 45 days. However, imports of capital goods and technology are approved by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports under a "one-window clearance procedure," provided that such imports reduce costs by at least 10 percent and that the preference will be given to importers exporting at least 25 percent of their output. For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, irrespective of whether or not the goods are manufactured in India. However, importers are required to study domestic avail- ability of suitable equipment before calling for tenders. The selection of suppliers on the basis of global tender is subject to scrutiny by a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Development. For imports of capital equipment for power generation, transmission, and distribution, applicants must obtain prior clearance from this committee before calling for global tenders. Subject to specified conditions and relative value restric- tion, exporters are entitled to import capital goods against their own and acquired Import Replenishment Scheme (REP) licenses without an "essentiality certificate" and without "indigenous angle clearance." Nonresident In- dians returning home for permanent settlement may import capital goods other than restricted items and certain specified items, subject to a max imum of Rs 2 million, for the purpose of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Under the REP, import licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses, and are freely transferable except for cases in which licenses are issued with actual user conditions. Exporters are able to obtain Advance Licenses (under the Du ty Exemption Scheme) or Import Licenses or Import/Export Passbook Licenses to import inputs required for export products. The imports under the Duty Exemption Scheme and the Import/Export Passbook Scheme are du ty free. The value of such licenses is INDIA debited against the REP en t i t lemen t. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain proportion of the value of exports; these licenses are valid for importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items necessary for the production of the particular export product. The REP license entitlement is increased by 10 percent for exports that are shipped in Indian vessels. Subject to a value limit on individual items, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses exporting select prod- ucts of their own manufacture are also allowed to import limited permissible items and canalized items that are related to select products exported or manufactured by them. Where the REP rate is 20 percent or less, import of limited permissible items is available up to 30 percent of the face value of the REP licenses, with a single item limit of Rs 0.15 million. Where the REP rate is more than 20 percent, the import of limited permissible items is allowed up to 25 percent, with a single item limit of Rs 0.15 million. In cases where the REP rate is more than 20 percent and an exporter has exported 50 percent or more of his output of select products, with a m in imum value of Rs 1.5 million, import of limited permissible items is allowed up to 25 percent, with a single item value limit up to Rs 0.4 million. Similarly, where the REP rate is 20 percent or more, the import of canalized items is allowed up to 20 percent, subject to a maximum of Rs 0.1 million per item. The limit is 25 percent when the REP rate is 20 percent or less. The percentage of admis- sibility and restriction of the single item value is higher in cases where the export of select products is 25 percent or more of the ou tpu t. Manufacturer-exporters who have been in production during the preceding three years and have exported 100 percent of their production of select products during the preceding one year are allowed to import any item in the limited permissible list and in the list of canalized items on Acquired Licenses, up to the value of REP licenses issued in favor of the manufacturer-exporter. The items allowed for import are those that are related to the select products being manufactured and exported or select products proposed to be manufac tured and exported. Additional licenses based on net foreign exchange earn- ings are also available for trading houses and export houses. Trading houses receive additional licenses at a higher rate if they form longer-term relationships with associate manufacturers. Small-scale un i ts are given es- pecially liberal treatment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale industries may form export houses. Nonindustrial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and professional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not office machines and consumer goods) under OGL. When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presen- tation of the exchange control copy of the license and 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA the shipping documen ts. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by rem i t t ing against sight drafts. Use of suppliers' credits and other long-term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, but in special cases, for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufac- turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain commodities, inc lud ing food- grains, certain oil and fa ts, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cotton, raw ju te, cement, cashew nu t s, most fertilizers, most nonferrous me ta ls, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Gov- ernment or state-trading enterprises (i.e., canalized), the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Ju te Corporation of Ind ia, the Food Corpo- ration of India, the Steel Au thor i ty of India, L td. (SAIL), and the M inera ls and Metals Trading Corporation. Bu lk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Indus tr ial Raw Materials Assistance Center (IRMAC) facility. In addition to any applicable import d u t y, impor ts are subject to an auxiliary du ty of up to 40 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such paymen ts, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign cur- rency to foreign nationals not permanen t ly res ident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annu i t ies issued against payment from recognized superannua t ion or pens ion funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbank ing assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of d iv idends by Ind ian com- panies to their nonres ident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain con- ditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, d iv idends, and interest to ben- eficiaries permanently resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and d iv idends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emi- gration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump-sum exchange facilities after 268 April 30, 1968 on grounds of ha rdsh ip, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their emp loyment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance p rem iums, for the support of the ir fam i l ies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign na t iona ls, other than nationals of the People's Republic of Ch ina, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the rem i t tance of larger amoun ts are considered on the ir merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, res iden ts are permitted to travel abroad w i thout "P" form formalities to all des t ina t ions, provided that they have not traveled abroad under this scheme during the two calendar years preceding the year of travel. For de term ina t ion of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the FTS is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined w i th v is i ts for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other bus iness matters, hajj pilgrimage, and travel und er the Neighborhood Travel Scheme (NTS). Under the FTS, residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent and a round- tr ip t icke t, irrespective of the carrier by wh ich they trave l. In the case of m inor ch i ldren up to the age of 12, the foreign exchange entitlement is US$250. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and s teamsh ip companies may book passages under the FTS for any eligible person; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Bu rma, Malaysia, Maldives, Mau r i t ius, Pakistan, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka is gov- erned by the NTS, under which residents of India v is i t ing neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allow- ance of US$250 a person once every three calendar years; th is arrangement cannot be combined with the existing FTS. As in the case of FTS, the foreign exchange en t i t lement for minor ch i ldren up to the age of 12 is one half of the normal quota for adults. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship com- panies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or w i thout an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in Ind ia. Certain categories of passengers, includ- ing persons traveling between Ind ia and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and em- ployees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on bus iness for their company in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' jou rneys to and from India may be settled, w i thout Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accoun ts. The export of Indian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denom ina t ions of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, ports in certain Middle ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eastern countries, and East Africa, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka may each take with them Rs 20 in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to US$20 or its equivalent to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on en try if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amoun ts may be re- converted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling-in and for purchase of initial equipment by students going to foreign universities with fu ll bursaries. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than Afghan is tan, Ban- gladesh, Bhu tan, Burma, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay the tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. In respect of controlled commodities,9 no item can normally be exported unless it is covered by a valid license issued by the concerned licensing authority. Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Border trade (i.e., frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China is not allowed. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not permanently resident in India, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six mon ths of shipment. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank of India through authorized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also ad- ministers a scheme under which export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of export value in installments over a period exceeding six months. 9The export of certain commodities, inc lud ing sugar, raw j u t e, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state-trading enterprises. INDIA Some exports are prohibited,10 and others, namely coffee, black pepper, mica scrap and waste, and hides, skins, and leather, are subject to export duties. Some others, including footwear, roasted and salted peanu ts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, marine products, processed food and agricultural prod- ucts, handicrafts, textiles, and ju te and coir products) receive cash compensatory support, import du ty draw- backs, refund of central excise du ty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists can, with the approval of the customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign ex- change without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of cars, scooters, and tractors against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is, in general, prohibited. However, deck-class passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, ports in certain Middle Eastern countries, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previ- ously had exported this amount from India. Travelers from Burma, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in Indian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coin, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remit- tances from any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign inves tmen ts, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; 10Exports that are prohibited include rock crys ta l, quar tz, silk waste, some var ie t ies of plants and de r iva t ives, all varieties of forestry founda t ion and breeder seeds, tallow fat and/or oil of any animal origin, rough (uncut and un s e t) precious stones, sugar cane, Khandsa ri sugar, palmyra sugar candy, jaggery, specified animal sk ins, and human ske le tons. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; permission is granted for any loan that has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the central government on the basis of merits. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity, holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incor- porated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 percent nonresident interest.11 Foreign investment is governed by the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) of 1973. The Reserve Bank will allow companies having nonresident interest in excess of 40 percent and up to 74 percent to continue their activities depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export-oriented production, or in manufac- turing activities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 percent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production involving application of sophisticated technology and export production accounts for not less than 60 percent 1'Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company, in any par tnersh ip or proprietorship concern, and in indus tr ia l, manu fac tu r ing, or trade ac t iv i ty (except where the proposed inves tment is in real estate), provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their Nonresident Accoun ts, provided that an under tak ing is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and d iv idends arising therefrom will not be reques ted, and provided that overall l im i ts on holdings of shares and convertible deben- tures bought through the stock exchange by nonres ident Ind ians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies and par tnersh ip firms which are owned by the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality of origin are also allowed to invest in any pub l ic or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies defined above can use f u n ds derived from fresh remittances or held in their Nonres ident (External) or Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts to (1) make portfolio inve s tmen t, w i th repatriation bene f i t, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their holdings of shares and convertible deben tures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of debentures issued by the company concerned; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certificates w i th fu ll repatriation bene f i t; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equ i ty capital issued by a company (other than a FERA company) setting up indus tr ial manu fac tu r ing projects, hospitals ( inc lud ing diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, sh ipp ing, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 74 percent of new inv e s tm en t s, inc lud ing expansion of ex is t ing industrial unde r tak ings in specified priority indus- tries, with free repatriation of such inve s tment and income therefrom after deduction of applicable Indian taxes. Such inve s tmen ts w i th repa- triation benef i ts can also be made in hospitals and three-, four-, or five- star hotels. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, can also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with fu ll repatriation bene f i ts, provided (1) the deposits are made for a period of three years; (2) the deposits are made in conform i ty with the prevailing rules and w i th in the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies; and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors by remittance from abroad or by payment from their Nonresident (Ex terna l) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accoun ts. Special tax concessions are applicable to investments by nonresident Indians. 270 of their annual turnover, with a minimum of 10 percent of exports out of their total annual turnover within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated technology, and export production account for not less than 75 percent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain 74 percent nonresident ownersh ip. Companies with exports exceeding 40 percent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 percent nonresident equity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-factory cost of annual production are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 percent. Companies that export 100 percent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies engaged predominantly in trad- ing activities, or not meeting the other criteria listed above, have been required to reduce their foreign share- holding to 40 percent w i th in a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping compa- nies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceeding 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 percent but below 75 percent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trading and commercial activities. W i thout the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money w i th, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Noncitizens, non-Indian companies, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 percent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. However, the sale and transfer of shares of Indian companies through stock exchanges in India by nonresidents of Indian na- tionality or origin in favor of citizens of India or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies in which nonresi- dent interest does not exceed 40 percent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance, where the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank autho- rized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction that in- creases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 percent or less; and they are also prohibited, except ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank ap- proval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not in- corporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, Re- serve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities and transferring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited —except with cen- tral government or Reserve Bank permission —from guar- anteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government permission, from associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original inves tmen t, may be repa- triated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in no more than four annual installments. The proceeds from liquidated foreign in- vestments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country perma- nently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (i.e., July 1947, in the case of the erstwhile Sterling Area countries, and September 1939, in the case of other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign nationals who are tem- porarily resident in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each fam- ily at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals tem- porarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resident in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted INDIA to transfer abroad their capital assets plus current income up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritances, and bequests by persons who never were residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports resident abroad and wishing to return to India to secure suitable employment, start a profes- sional practice, or set up small-scale industrial units are, upon application, exempted for a period of five years from the date of their return to India from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alter- native to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, holders may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and components, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal require- ments. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also ex- tended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Enti- tlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 50 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which ex- change is normally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of ten years from the date of return of the head of the family. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coin) previously declared, there are restrictions on their manufacture and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally perm i t ted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold jewelry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Replenish- ment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of not less than 0.5833 f ineness are entitled to the replenishment by gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Governmen t) against Release Orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they satisfy value added and other require- ments of the scheme. A similar scheme for exports of silver jewelry and articles has been introduced with effect from December 8, 1986. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-export, provided that payment for the import will not be required, that the entire quan t i ty of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewe l ry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an au- thorized dealer. Eligible registered exporters are allowed to import gold findings, moun t ings, etc., and gold of 18 carats and less for export of plain and studded gold jewelry under advance licensing scheme. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Under the gold jewelry export scheme, net export of gold from India is not permitted, and the export of gold jewelry is permitted only if the value added is 15 percent or more; export under the scheme to the Bilateral Group of countries is not perm i t ted. Changes During 1986 Prescription of Currency February 22 . A bilateral trade and paymen ts agreement covering the period 1986-90 was concluded with Poland. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The export/import passbook scheme came into effec t. 272 January 30. Broad-based licensing was introduced for three-wheelers with a capacity of up to 350 cubic centimeters. March 3. Twenty-nine machine tool items were placed under Open General License. March 4. Broad-based licensing was introduced for glass bottles and containers. June 16. The customs du ty rates on parts and compo- nen ts for electronic goods were reduced from 100-140 percent to 30-45 percen t; those on capital goods for electronic goods were reduced from 142-190 percent to 55 percent, and those on computers were reduced from 200 percent to 150 percent. June 25. Broad-based licensing for the synthetic fiber and filament yarn industries was expanded. July 29. Import and excise du ty concessions were announced for a number of items including computerized numerically controlled systems, leather chemicals, coffee, curry ing-machinery, ambulances, auto-rickshaws, fertil- izer inpu ts, specific rubber products, and polypropylene yarn. September 18. Broad-based licensing was introduced for ball and roller bearings and their components (needle roller, cylindrical, and taper roller bearings and balls were excluded). October 8. The following items were removed from the Open General License list: five acetoacet compounds, aminophyline, shellac/seedlac, and theophylines. October 29. Floppy diskettes were removed from the Open General License list. November 13. Forty-three items of machinery were placed under Open General License. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The export/import passbook scheme came into effect. February I. The system of processing drawback claims and disbursing drawbacks was simplified and a revised un iform procedure was introduced in all major customs houses with a view to ensuring quicker availability of drawbacks to exporters. February I. Varying rates of du ty drawback for various categories of woven ready-made garments were merged into a uniform rate of 7.5 percent. March I. An enhanced du ty drawback rate of 10 percent was announced for garment exporters. June 1. The du ty drawback schedule containing all indus try rates of drawback for various items was com- pletely restructured and new rationalized rates an- nounced. Rates were improved for a number of products with significant export/import potential such as finished leather, shoe-uppers, leather garments and leather prod- ucts, carpets and druggets, household items, certain plastic items, certain chemicals, and sporting goods. July 1. A cash compensatory support scheme for exporters for the period up to March 1989 (for cotton textiles for the period January 1986-December 1988) was announced. Rates were announced for 229 items, with higher rates of up to 25 percent of value added becoming ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payable for eight producer groups with export potential (selected engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, processed food and agri- cultural products including marine produc ts, handicrafts and textiles including gems and jewelry, and ju te and coir products). July 1. The rates of the cash compensatory support scheme for f ru i ts and vegetables were increased from 14 percent to 22 percent for export by air. August 1. Scheduled commercial banks' lending rates for export credits were reduced to 9.5 percent for pre- shipment credits of up to 180 days and to 11.5 percent for credits of 180 to 270 days with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The interest rate on Reserve Bank export refinance to scheduled commercial banks was reduced from 10 percent to 9 percent. October 8. A series of measures were announced to promote exports of the following sectors: tea, especially in packaged form; cereals, especially wheat; processed food, including meat, meat products, fru i ts and vegeta- bles; marine products; iron ore; leather goods; handi- crafts; jewe lry; capital goods; consumer durables; elec- tronic goods and computer software; basic chemicals; textiles and garments; projects and services. The mea- sures, aimed at reducing costs, upgrading technology, and promoting exports more e f f ic ien t ly, included supply- ing raw materials at international prices, using up to 10 percent of foreign exchange earnings for export promo- tion, importing machinery free of du ty or at low rates, and fully remitting excise duties and domestic taxes. December 17. Measures to promote drug exports were introduced, which included a concessional import du ty on raw materials, the supply of materials at international INDIA prices for export produc t ion, and the removal of capacity restrictions for export un i t s. Capital July 29. The following measures were announced: (1) Indian nationals who left the country permanen t ly before the introduction of exchange controls in India ( i .e ., July 1947 in the case of the erstwhile Sterling Area countries and September 1939 in the case of other countries) were permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual ins ta l lmen ts not exceeding Rs 250,000; (2) foreign nationals leaving India after re- tirement were allowed to transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of their capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 for each family on departure and up to Rs 250,000 in annual installments thereaf ter; (3) persons who never were residents of India were allowed to transfer abroad legacies, inheritances, and bequests up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; and (4) foreign-born widows of Indian na- tionals were permitted to transfer abroad their capital assets plus current income up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and up to Rs 250,000 annually thereaf ter. July 31. Powers were delegated to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India to allow remittances of equity d iv idends, including interim d iv idends, in all cases where the Indian company paying the d iv idend is a non- FERA company (i .e ., a company in which the nonresident interest does not exceed 40 percent). 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rup iah. The exchange value of the rupiah is determined by Bank Indonesia under a system of managed float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for telegraphic transfers in the Jakarta Bourse were Rp 1,637.00 and Rp 1,645.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Jakarta Bourse for the U .S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse, daily calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia stands willing to trade unlimited amoun ts of foreign exchange or rupiah with authorized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Bank Indonesia also offers authorized banks and nonbank financial institutions certain facilities for swap transac- tions in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by residents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. For exchange control purposes, no distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, if the account holder wishes to withdraw f u n d s, a letter must be sent to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and an initial deposit is required for registration. Only Indonesian 'Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's in terna t ional transac t ions, that is, Australian dollars, Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ma lays ian ringgit, Ne the r lands gu i lders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 274 nationals can be authorized as importers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified commodities. Imports of many goods have long been restricted to approved importers, which are often state enterprises. Certain imports of chemical indus t ry products, heavy equ ipment and spare parts, machines, machine equ ipment and spare parts, electric and electric industrial products, and metal industrial products must be effected by registered im- porters approved by the Minister of Trade. However, beginning October 25, 1986, some of these goods can also be imported by nonapproved importers. Importation of automotive spare parts and textiles is subject to the same registration and approval requ iremen ts. Importers of products w i th in a given product group must have a license from the Ministry of Trade w i th in that group. No restric- tions are placed on the number of licensed importers in each category. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including 46 different categories of food, beverages, and fru i ts, can be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of f ru i t, alcoholic beverages, chickens, and eggs are evaluated annually by the Gov- e rnmen t, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. Imports of steel products in the form of steel slabs, steel sheets for vessels, hot-rolled steel sheet in coils, and other specified hot-rolled sheets are controlled by the Government and can be made only by Persero Niaga (a state-trading company), acting on behalf of PT Krakatau Steel, a governmen t-owned steel mill. Importation of a number of products is handled by state monopolies as follows: f in ished products made of iron or steel may only be imported by PT Dharma Niaga and PT Kerta Niaga; off-the-road tires may only be imported by PT Dharma Niaga and PT Pantja Niaga; brake fluid and lubricating fat may only be imported by PT Pantja Niaga and PT Tjipta Niaga; and HVS-type paper and manifold, onion- sk in, seed, corona, reinforced and drawing paper, and HVO litho may be imported only by PT Pantja Niaga. However, beginning October 25, 1986, some of these goods can also be imported by non-approved importers. A revised tariff schedule is applied under which there is a total of 11 tariff rates with a range of 0-60 percent. Import surcharges have been imposed on certain com- modities. In addition, a value-added tax of 10 percent is levied on the c .i .f. value of imported goods, including import duties. Designated luxury goods may incur import duties of higher than 60 percent or they may be subject to a specific import du ty. Certain commodities are granted favorable du ty treatment w i th in the framework of Asso- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution elation of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) preferential arrangements. Imports to Indonesia are subject to preshipment in- spection in the country of origin by (private) international agencies; the inspection cost is borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspection, these agencies are required to issue a survey report (LKP) specifying the type, quality, quan t i ty, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value-added taxes; in the case of imports without a letter of credit, the LKP must be sent to an Indonesian bank designated by the importer, which in turn must send the bill of lading and the LKP to a foreign exchange bank. In the case of imports under letters of credit, the LKP is sent to the correspondent banks, and after payments of duties (which are determined on the declared c.i.f. value or the c.i.f. value as estimated by (private) international agencies) and taxes to the bank, the importer is given the bill of lading and the validated LKP, which must be presented to customs for the release of the sh ipmen t. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LKP, except those which are valued less than $5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madura); scrap of brass and copper (except from Irian Jay a); iron scrap; steel scrap; fertilizers; rice; sugar; kapok seeds; antiques of cultural value; and raw rattan. Exports by state enterprises must be effected in vessels operated by Indonesian companies. Registration of authorized exporters is required. Ex- ports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by means of quotas, or a requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to en- courage domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern with domestic price stability sometimes involves suspension of exports of various items on this list. The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver exported by PN Aneka Tarn- bang, and all goods produced from subsidized raw ma- terials. All other commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state-trading firms, except for exports of plywood, which need approval from the joint-marketing body for plywood exports. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no surrender requ irement for export proceeds. To calculate export taxes on the principal commodities other than petroleum 2I tems affected by such controls include logs, fe r t i l ize r, cemen t, con- s truc t ion re inforcemen ts of iron, au tomob i le t i res, paper, aspha l t, s tear in, cattle, salt, wheat flour, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, raw ra t tan, and meat. INDONESIA and gas, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices determined periodically by the Min- ister of Trade. Exports of certain products are subject to an export tax: palm oil, coconut oil, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 percent tax; the major mineral products (excluding bauxite ore and concen- trates), to a 10 percent tax; and semiprocessed rattan and natural sands, to a 20 percent tax. A few products are also subject to an additional export tax, ranging from 0.75 percent to 20.8 percent. Export taxes and additional export surtaxes are col- lected by foreign exchange banks and transferred weekly to the account of the state general treasurer at Bank Indonesia. For exports based on letters of credit, taxes are settled at foreign exchange banks at the time of negotiation of export bills, while for exports without letters of credit, taxes are settled at the time of registration of export notification. For exports with consignment and usance letters of credit, taxes may be collected at the time of receipt of payment from abroad by foreign exchange banks or within 180 days from registration of export notification at the foreign exchange bank. On May 6, 1986 the Indonesian authorities began implementation of a scheme designed to make available to exporters inputs priced at international levels. This scheme permits exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters to bypass the import licensing system and import tariffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties, although the costs imposed by nontariff barriers cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 a mon th, whe ther transported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boat. Beginning from January 1982, the Indonesian Govern- ment may, at its op t ion, require all foreign firms bidding for government-sponsored construction or procurement projects to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation.4 Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase require- ments must submit with their bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's value 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer-exporters— firms that export at least 85 percent of the ir total production —or exporter- producers. Producer-exporters may import their imports ex ante, but with ex post documen ta t ion, free of licensing restrictions and exempt from import du t ies. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their ou tput had been, or will be, exported or was an input in an exported ou tpu t, then they can also receive the same perm iss ion to import the ir inpu ts as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import du t ies th rough a du ty drawback fac i l i ty. 4Projects or parts thereof financed w i th concessional loans as well as w i th credits from the IBRD, the As ian Deve lopment B ank, and the Islamic Development Bank are exempted from such requ i remen ts, as is the procurement of sophisticated technology and professional services and procuremen ts invo lv ing jo int ven tu res between state enterprises and foreign inves tors. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA in selected Indonesian products (f .o .b .) during the life of the contract.5 Goods eligible to be used in fulfilling the counterpur- chase requ irement include agricultural products, manu- factured and other products, excluding pe tro leum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. Lists of eligible products and services are issued periodically by the Department of Trade. Exports of labor services may also be used to fulfill counterpurchase obligations. The foreign supplier may fu l f i ll the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third pa r ty, possibly from ano ther country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Gove rnmen t. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionally"; i .e ., the coun terpur- chases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indones ia. The transference of counterpur- chase obligations may be managed by a bank, but the primary responsibility for fu lf i l lment of the requisite countertrade rests with the contractor. When a firm acts to fu lf i ll a counterpurchase obligation, it must meet one of two requ iremen ts: (1) if it has not previously exported Indonesian produc ts, its exports of acceptable products must fulfill the counterpurchase ob- ligation not later than three mon ths prior to the termination period of the contract; and (2) if the firm has exported Indonesian goods during the preceding year, qualified exports during the current year must exceed those of the previous year by at least the value of the counterpurchase obligation. Failure to fulfill counterpurchase obligations may result in a penalty of up to 50 percent of the counterpurchase shortfall. Final payment to the foreign supplier will not be made un t il after the countertrade has been effec ted. Counterpurchase sanctions have yet to be imposed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed pri- marily by the Foreign Capital Inves tment Law of January 10, 1967, and subsequently amended by a number of Presidential Guidelines and Decrees. In principle, such inves tmen ts may be under taken only through a jo int ven ture with an Indonesian partner. All inve s tmen ts in Indonesia require the approval of the President on the recommendation of the Inves tment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate bus iness un i ts must be incor- porated under Indonesian law and must have their dom- 5Contract va lue for th is purpose is def ined as being net of what the contractor spends on Indones ian supplies, taxes, du t ies, and wages paid w i th in the coun t ry. 276 icile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign in- ves tment is usually valid for a max imum of 30 years. With the introduction of the new income tax law on January 1, 1984, existing inves tment incentives for foreign capital inves tment in the form of tax holidays, inves tment allowances, loss compensations, and exemptions from dividend taxes have been formally abolished. The incen- tives currently applied for foreign inves tmen ts are: ex- emption from the capital stamp duty and from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxiliary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal purposes on virtually all mach inery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of certain taxes on imports of capital goods. Investors are granted the right to make capital repatri- ation, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depre- ciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as inves tment benef i ts from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign cur- rency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from non- res iden ts, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonres iden ts. A 15 percent reserve requirement is appli- cable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions or private companies. Certain borrowing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and the M in is try of Finance. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export secu- rities denominated in rupiah or in foreign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum re- sources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported free of license only by importers des- ignated by the Governmen t. Such imports require prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement September 12. The exchange rate of the Indonesian rupiah was changed from Rp 1,134 per US$1 to Rp 1,664 per US$1, representing a depreciation of 31 percent in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. Imports and Import Payments February 25. Imports of machines, equ ipmen t, soft- ware, and basic materials not yet domestically produced in line with the technical specifications and qualities needed by certain companies (PT Indus t ry Persavat Tir- bang Indonesia "Nurtanio," PT Pindad, and PT PAL) were granted a total exemption from import duties and import sales tax. March 21. Importers of dicotyl pthalate (DOP) were required to submit import volume plans to the Director General of Foreign Trade. March 25. The import of used paper was restricted to paper producers using it as a basic material, with the permitted quantities determined by the Director General of Foreign Trade. May 6. Imports of capital goods for companies engaged in the services indus try, other than construction services, were granted suspension from paying the value-added tax. The suspended amount must be settled within a maximum of five years from commercial production. May 6. Import duties and surcharges on commodities used to manufacture exports were permitted to be resti- tuted. Applications for restitution are to be submitted to the Administration of Import Duty Exemp t ion and Draw- back (P4BM) of the Ministry of Finance. Exports must take place not more than 12 months after the inputs are imported. Under this procedure, exporters are classified as producer-exporters —firms that export at least 85 per- cent of their total production —or exporter-producers. Producer-exporters may import their inpu ts ex ante, but with export documentation, free of licensing restrictions and exempt from import duties. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output has been, or will be, exported or was an input to an exported ou tpu t, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a du ty- drawback facility. June 4. Imports by exporter-producers that were ex- empted from import du ty were also granted exemption from the value-added tax. June 25. Imports of air conditioners were made subject to a sales tax on luxury goods of 10 percent. June 30. The value-added tax on taxable imports directly connected with the production process of PT Indonesian Asaban Aluminum was suspended. July 11. Importers of goods connected with the pro- duction process of motor sailboats of the ca raka jaya type INDONESIA were exempted from import duties, the value-added tax, and the sales tax on luxury goods. July 11. Imports of goods related to the main operations of certain defense-related companies were granted ex- emptions from import duties, value-added taxes, and precollection of income tax. July 12. Imports of cars in completely knocked-down condition for the taxi business that are undertaken by the Taxi Drivers Cooperative were granted exemption from import duties and the value-added tax. July 28. Certain imports needed for the approved construction, or expansion, of shopping centers, super- markets, and department stores were granted import du ty exemption. August 4. Eligibility for the exemption from import duties, value-added tax, and sales tax on luxury goods on imports of cars for the taxi business was extended to all existing taxi companies that have obtained government approval to rejuvenate their taxis. August 9. The import of steel and nonsteel metals was limited to certain companies. These importers are to compile annual programs for the procurement and do- mestic distribution of steel and nonsteel metals after consultation with the ministries of Trade, Indus t ry, and Finance. August 13. Import duties on copra, palm oil, and their processed products were increased to between 60 percent and 90 percent. August 13. The value-added tax and sales tax on luxury goods on the import of capital goods for certain companies were suspended for a period of not more than five years from the tax due date. The kinds of capital goods that are to be exempted are to be determined by the Minister of Finance after consultations with the Chairman of the Inves tment Coordinating Board, while the eligible com- panies include those operating hotels, offices, shopping centers, and public transport, including taxis and fishing vessels. September 2. Shrimp feed was exempted from import duties. September 2. Basic materials for the manufacture of certain bearings were exempted from import duties. September 3. Import duties on sewing machines for industrial use were made uniform at 10 percent. September 13. Import duties on tire cord fabrics were reduced to between 15 percent and 40 percent. October 7. On approval of the application for exemption from import du ty and surcharge and value-added tax, a producer-exporter is required to submit a bank guarantee, or surety bond, amounting to the exemption granted. The guarantee or surety bond is given to the Administration of Import Du ty Exemption and Drawbacks (P4BM). October 16. Imports of certain types of steel bars for industrial use were exempted from import duties; import duties were decreased on certain other types of steel bars, and increased on others. October 25. Five categories of approved importers— general importers (IU), approved importers (IT), pro- ducer-importers (IP), importer-producers (PI), and sole 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA agents (AT) —were introduced for 321 categories of im- ports. These categories were concentrated in mechanical and electrical equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals, paper and paper board, rubber tires and tubes, and basic iron and steel. This action liberalized the import licensing procedures. At the same time, import duties on 333 items were altered, and a list of 33 items was created that resulted in the imposition of a temporary surcharge. October 25. Import surcharges were imposed on zinc chloride, duplicating paper, and metal files. December 6. The value-added tax and sales tax on luxury goods of taxable capital goods and services to PT Bimantara Eka Santosa were suspended for a period of not more than five years from the tax due date. December 6. Regulations applying to the import of textile products were extended through December 5,1989. December 15. Importers of steel and nonsteel metals were appointed by the Ministry of Trade. December 29. Imports of machinery, components, and raw materials by defense related companies were ex- empted from the approved importer categories established on October 25. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles October 2. The exit tax was increased to Rp 250,000 per person per trip. October 4. Indonesians domiciled abroad and having official identification as foreign citizens were exempted from the exit tax certificate. This exemption may be granted only once every 12 months. Exports and Export Proceeds March 26. Exports of nutmeg were limited to companies that were members of the Indonesian Nu tmeg Association at the time of this decree or had experience in the export of this product. April 19. The export tax on natural sands, except metalbearing sands, were lowered to 10 percent. April 21. The maximum value of plywood exports in a calendar year and the allocation among recognized ply- wood exporters to most major markets are to be deter- mined by the Association of Plywood Exporters and approved by the Director General of Foreign Trade. May 12. An additional export tax on coffee was raised to between 1.67 percent and 3.85 percent, depending on the type of coffee. June 20. The export tax on crude palm oil was removed. June 21. The period of validity of export certificates was extended from March 31, 1986 to June 30, 1986. September 9. The export ban on pure gold and silver was lifted. October 7. Rattan exports were classified into three groups —raw material, ha l f - f in ished, and finished. Effec- tive October 8, 1986, the export of raw material rattan would be prohibited. October 24. The five rates of export tax were fixed— nil, 5 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent— with the provision that certain exports are subject to an extra export tax. The export tax rate on rattan was set at 30 percent. November 4. The export tax on several types of sawn timber was set at 30 percent. The export tax on undressed leather was set at 30 percent, and on dressed leather, at 5 percent. Capital May 6. A 30-year time period was set for licenses of foreign capital inves tment companies in Indonesia. October 25. The ceiling on foreign currency swaps between commercial banks and Bank Indonesia was lifted. The amount of the swap, however, must not exceed the foreign loan received by the commercial bank. The premium on the swap is set by Bank Indonesia. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. The official exchange rates are determined daily on the basis of the cross SDR-rial rates for the currencies concerned and apply to all transactions. On December 31, 1986 the official buying and selling rates of Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 75.419 and Rls 75.869, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Min- istry of Commerce after approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries1 having clearing agree- ments with the Islamic Republic of Iran are conducted under the terms of those agreements. The unit of account of these agreements is usually the U.S. dollar. Settlements with member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan,2 and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions are required to be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts (AMUs). Final settlement, when necessary, takes place by con- verting AMUs to an agreed currency. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to the exchange of goods and related services (excluding border trade and petroleum and petroleum products) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of petroleum and petroleum products and certain services are made through special accounts held by the central banks of these three countries. Banking arrangements have been concluded with major Western European banks to estab- lish "Special Accounts" for clearing paymen ts related to the sale of crude oil in exchange for purchase of a variety of products and raw materials. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts, as well as accounts in foreign currencies, with authorized banks. The balance of the rial accounts may only be used in the Islamic Republic of Iran. 'Bulgaria, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hung a ry, Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Yugoslavia, and U .S .S .R. 2Pakistan, being a member of a separate agreement w i th the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, settles its payments through that agreement instead of in AMUs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce (except for special military and pharmaceutical goods, souvenirs, and gifts brought in by incoming travelers that do not require authorization) before being registered by autho- rized banks. In addition, all imports require the prior approval of the procurement and distribution centers, except for goods imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other military goods. The import policy is re- examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (commencing March 21). New export-import regu- lations, effective for the next year, are published by the Ministry of Commerce. The regulations distinguish be- tween "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" goods are those whose imports and exports, with due consideration for the regulations, are permitted. "Unauthorized" goods are those whose ex- ports or imports are temporarily prohibited by the Gov- ernment or are contingent on fulfilling certain require- ments (as explained in the relative tariff). "Prohibited" goods apply to those whose transactions are forbidden by Islamic Sharia or by the law. At the time of registration of imports, a registration fee of 3 percent of the value of the order, calculated on a c.i.f. basis, is collected by authorized banks. At the time of registration of some goods, importers must deposit with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, 15 percent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from the registration deposit. The registration deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the goods have been cleared through customs, or if the order is canceled. If less than 90 percent of the registration value is used, the amount of the refund will be in proportion to the unused amount of the registered order. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in which registration deposits are required to the exempt category, and vice versa. Most imports are subject to commercial benef it taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs du ty. Monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the export-import regulations the commercial benef it taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the pre- sentation of shipping documents endorsed by an autho- rized bank and the permission of the relative procurement and distribution center (this permit may be issued at the time of opening of letters of credit and need not be reissued). Goods that are not covered by any center do 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN not require perm iss ion. For some goods (such as phar- maceuticals, imports of the M in is try of Post, Telegraph and Telephone, and imports of the Atomic Energy Or- ganization), presentation of a special permission is com- pulsory when they are cleared through customs. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of p rem iums for re insurance is permitted at the daily rate upon the request of the insurance company. Foreign nationals work ing for the private sector or in organizations aff i l ia ted to or under government supervision in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose em- ployment has been recognized as necessary by the Gov- e rnment may remit up to a max imum of 30 percent of their net salaries; the limit on remittances for physicians is from 15 to 60 percent, depend ing on the location and condition of the ir work. The transfer of the above- mentoned amount is contingent on a valid passport and work permits. Persons needing medical trea tment abroad may obtain foreign exchange up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the M in is try of Health. The sale of foreign exchange to s tuden ts studying abroad varies according to the cost of living in the respective coun try up to a m ax imum of US$750 a mon th. An additional allowance of 45 percent and 15 percent of the basic allowance is provided, respectively, for the spouse and for each child. In certain cases where th is allowance does not cover tu i t ion, un ive r s i ty fees and expenses are sep- arately calculated and paid. Foreign travelers en ter ing the Islamic Republic of Iran mu s t, before being issued en t ry perm i ts, sell to the bank ing system foreign exchange, according to the amount (in the range of US$150-300) specified by an official represen- tative of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Muslim citizens of other countries and citizens of countries that are party to bilateral agreements are exempt from this regulation. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out w i th them up to Rls 2,000 in Iranian bank notes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export more foreign currency than they have imported. The import or export of any amount of foreign currency is allowed, provided that the amount was declared at the time of arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all commodities are subject to prevailing regulations on foreign trade. The commercial benef it tax and customs du ty charged at the time of import of raw materials used in manu fac tu red goods for export are refunded to the exporter after the export has taken place. Exporters of non-oil goods are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of goods exported. Such 280 exporters may transfer the declared foreign exchange earnings to another individual for import of goods. The foreign currency proceeds from commodity exports are sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks accept export proceeds normally in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi. With the prior ap- proval of Bank Markazi, other currencies may also be accepted. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from the export of invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank. Transfers from such accounts do not require the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Travelers may bring into the coun try up to Rls 2,000 in Iranian bank notes. Capital Iranian nationals may retain their foreign exchange earnings, if earned abroad, in domestic foreign currency accounts w i th domestic authorized banks. Transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign capital inves tment is supervised by the Organization for Inve s tment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance; repatriation of foreign capital can be made with the approval of this organization and Bank Markazi. The net short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 27 percent. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in the domestic market. Authorized banks may import gold and silver bullion with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for Bank Markazi. Imports for industrial and dental use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi; such imports are subject to customs du ty, the commercial benefit levy, and an import registration fee. Passengers may, w i thout prior approval of Bank Markazi, bring in jewelry with a value equ iva lent to Rls 5 million, which will be recorded in their passports so that the same may be re-exported; imports of personal jewelry with a value exceeding this amount require the approval of Bank Markazi. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on De- cember 31, 1986 were US$3.2249 and US$3.2088, re- spectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only w i th authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this authority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Commit- tee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. Branches of the Rafidain Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy and the annual program are formulated by the Board for the Regulation of Trade and supervised by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current pay- ments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities normally are handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (in respect of old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some com- modities on a protection list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import du ty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign exchange obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. The value of such imports may be invested in various projects in the country on behalf of the nonresident; earnings from such investments are not transferable. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Ex- change is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank is permitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 percent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain non- resident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not em- ployed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 25 a person, with noncontractual workers employed by the Government being entitled to ID 58 per person per month, or up to 60 percent of earnings. The regulations provide, in principle, for basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad on the basis of clas- sification of foreign countries into two categories as follows: the basic allowance for travel to a country in the first category is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 150 for persons under 18 years of age) for each trip to Arab and socialist countries, Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece. For the second category, which includes all other countries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years of age). Individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad for first category 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ countries ranges between ID 30-60 a person a day depending on status and duration of missions; for second category countries, the allowance ranges between ID 40- 75 per day. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as India, socialist countries, and Nor th Africa) where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 allowance for personal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Board for the Regulation of Trade has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organization for Exports. All other exports are licensed free ly. Exporters generally must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank and to surrender them within two months after shipment. Under an export subsidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non-oil exports, financial support is limited to 25 percent of the value of the eligible exports. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The financial subsidies are granted according to a classified list of goods and upon presentation of the necessary documents from the Ministry of Trade. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles mu st be surrendered within three mon ths to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency), in unlimited amoun ts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes, and Arab nationals of Gulf States may bring in ID 100 in such notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the 282 Rafidain Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of Arab states may participate with Iraqis in the capital of industrial projects and commercial companies. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whe ther Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in convertible currency; similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals abroad to open accounts at the Rafidain Bank with foreign currencies that are freely transferable abroad. Iraqi na- tionals resident abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 10,000 a year in three installments to cover personal expenses inside the coun try. Under the Industrial Inves tment Regulation Law for private and mixed sectors (No. 115 of 1982), certain incentives and guarantees are granted to approved in- vestments of domestic or Arab capital in Iraq. In addition, Arab capital invested in Iraq is accorded preferential treatment in d ifferent economic sectors. Arab farmers having contracts with the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform are permitted to transfer abroad annually up to 50 percent of their individual net re turn, subject to a limit of ID 500. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Iraqi citizens may bring in with them gold for personal use up to 250 grams of worked gold free of tax. Imports of worked gold in excess of 250 grams are subject to a du ty of 35 percent, and all gold transactions are required to be declared on a foreign exchange form at the point of en try. Iraqi residents may take out w i th them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold should be brought back on return to the coun try. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they have already brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. Foreigners can also bring into the country worked gold up to 250 grams a person. Export and import of gold for commercial purposes is not permitted. Changes During 1986 Payments for Invisibles March 18. The limit on remittances by nonresident private sector workers who are not employed by public ins t i tu t ions or by contract was reduced from ID 58 to ID 25 per person per mon th. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Neth- erlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Ireland maintains the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.8147 1.7348 100 Danish kroner 10.0087 9.5683 100 deutsche mark 37.0644 35.4358 100 French francs 11.3830 10.8825 100 Italian lire 0.0549952 0.0487799 100 Netherlands guilders 32.8940 31.4465 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. On December 31, 1986 the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.3995 per I r£ l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961 Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose (authorized banks). Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Indus try and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature or by the Depart- ment of Agriculture if they are agricultural in character; import licenses are also issued by the Department of Tourism, Fisheries, and Forestry, and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control pur- poses. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresidents, that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprises two categories: (1) residents of EC member countries, and (2) residents of all other countries. Authorized paymen ts may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are designated External Accounts. All credits in excess of Ir£250,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks with authorized banks require specific approval by the Central Bank (or Ir£50,000 when such accounts are held with financial institutions other than authorized banks), except where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland. There are also limits on max imum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks; these may be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with paymen ts that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, with transfers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes received from abroad in denominations not exceeding Ir£20, paymen ts from w i th in the country up to Ir£100 in va lue, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if appli- cable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency ac- counts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same require- men ts as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of resi- dents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods into Ireland is subject to the following types of administrative control: Prohibitions. Under EC legislation Ireland is authorized to prohibit for specific periods the importation of certain textiles and footwear, which originate in certain third countries and which are in free circulation in other member states of the EC. There is also a prohibition on the import of cycle tires and tubes from all countries except con- tracting parties to the GATT and from Algeria, Lebanon, Morocco, Norway, and Tunisia. Quantitative Restrictions. Special quota restrictions apply to (1) certain textile products originating in the state-trading countries and in various supplying countries with which the EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements under which import quotas are set each year 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND for d ifferent products; (2) automobile tires from the German Democratic Republic; (3) footwear from Czech- oslovakia and Taiwan!; (4) certain sacks and bags other than those of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (mainly ju te bags originating in Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Taiwant, the state-trading countries, and Yugoslavia); and (5) certain ceramic products origi- nating in the People's Republic of China and Romania. Import restrictions have been imposed by the EC on certain textiles originating in TaiwanJ. Voluntary Restraints. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements w i th various supplying countries on trade in tex t i les under which import quotas are set each year for different products. Surveillance. Ireland operates a system of surveillance on certain imports of the following: live plants or flori- cultural products, iron and steel products, clothing and textiles, footwear, tw ine, cordage, motorcar tires, copper tubes, certain ceramic products, and sanitary f ix tures. National Public Policy. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammun i t ion) are prohibited without special licenses. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland, or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order, or if payment is not being made in an approved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland mu s t, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. Imports from non-EC countries of products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs tariff. For permitted imports, permission to make paymen ts to nonresidents is granted automatically. Authority to make paymen ts is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control forms are re- quired for import payments exceeding Ir£l0,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance in foreign currency for residents of Ireland of Ir£500 a person for each trip, or when the trip exceeds two mon ths, Ir£2,000. For bus iness travel, up to Ir£3,000 at a rate of Ir£100 a day is allowed for each jou rney. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Appli- cations for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir£500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to Ir£100 in Irish currency notes. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 284 Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if their value exceeds Ir£100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding Ir£l0,000 and must be shown to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date he received the exchange. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior Central Bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denominations exceeding Ir£20 to External Accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to authorized dealers; other payments require Central Bank approval. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emigration is Ir£40,000 for each family. When the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds Ir£40,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, that is, from the date of departure from Ireland; however, during this four-year period, income on restricted assets may be transferred abroad. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported without limit. For Irish residents taking up permanent residence in an EC country, including those taking up employment, applications to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allow- ances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control ap- proval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by non- residents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incom- ing capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The Central Bank considers applications by Irish res- idents for permission to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EC may be financed only by foreign currency loans, which are approved by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank on application, subject to a limit of Ir£20,000 a property and one property for each family un i t. Bor- rowings may be repaid with official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The forward currency transactions of commercial banks are subject to limits which vary from bank to bank, depending on the institution's level of participation in the foreign exchange market. Transactions in foreign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure that, in general, capital is not transferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities may be sold only to nonresidents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i th in three mon ths. During that three-mon th period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of foreign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of funds at the current rate of exchange for inves tment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors and professional portfolio managers for portfolio investment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank will grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty (ESCC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM). Such permission is granted only on an undertaking by the intending buyer that the securities will not be resold for at least one year from the date of purchase authorization, a requirement that applies also to purchases made from the sale or ma tur i ty proceeds of existing holdings. In line w i th this requirement, all sales of existing holdings of EC securities are subject to exchange control approval. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign currency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered securities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir£100,000 require notification to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to Ir£ 1,500 a donor a calendar year. Appli- cations by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC IRELAND residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are consid- ered. Residents require prior exchange control approval (1) to accept loans from nonresidents, irrespective of the currency of such loans; and (2) to accept loans in foreign currency from any source; such applications are consid- ered on the ir merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing from nonresidents is under taken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lend ing of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally perm i t ted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio inves tmen t, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. In accordance with a Regulation of the EC Council dated October 27, 1986, Ireland does not permit the importation of gold coins from the Republic of South Africa. Although there are no other import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control per- mission also is required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide num isma t ic or industrial purposes, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 7. The in te rven t ion rates for the Irish pound w i th in the European Monetary System were adjusted, as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian/Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 1.6695 9.2080 34.1000 10.4725 0.0505956 30.2645 1.5960 8.8029 32.6000 10.0115 0.0448775 28.9329 The new central rate of the Irish pound in terms of ECUs was fixed at Ir£0.712956 per ECU !.„ August 4. The intervention rates for the first Irish pound w i th in the European Monetary System were adjusted, as follows: 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian/Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 1.8147 10.0087 37.0644 11.3830 0.549952 32.8940 1.7348 9.5683 35.4358 10.8825 0.487799 31.4465 The new central rate of the Irish pound in terms of ECUs was fixed at Ir£0.764976 per ECU 1. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariffs on imports from Spain and Portugal were adjusted downward as these countries joined the EC. Capital April 4. Restrictions on forward currency transactions by commercial banks were tightened: new foreign ex- change swaps with the Central Bank could no longer count as part of the current against forward limits, thus preventing these swaps being used by the banks as a basis for giving additional forward cover. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural, Sheqalim). The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene when necessary to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to maintain orderly conditions in the market. With effect from August 1, 1986 the new sheqel has been linked to a basket consisting of the following five major currencies: the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, the French franc, and the Japanese yen. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the noon midpoint exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 1.4864 = US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange, and a levy of 1 percent of the transaction value is imposed on purchases of foreign exchange by the public, including those involving foreign currency- denominated PAT AM accounts (see below). An exchange rate insurance scheme covering export receipts is in operation (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonres- ident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresidents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Develop- ment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel in either nonresident deposit accounts, which may, subject to conditions, be held by exporters and recent immigrants to Israel; or PATAM- Restitution accounts, which may be held only by re- cipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. In addition, residents may maintain PATAM accounts that are time or deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency; the minimum term for interest-bearing PATAM time deposits is one year. Banks are required to redeposit 100 percent of PATAM demand and time deposits with the Bank of Israel. However, no new deposits in sheqalim can be made on PATAM accounts with a maturity of less than one year; but existing deposits in these accounts continue to be convertible into sheqalim at any time. PATAM-Restitution accounts are also demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with authorized banks, which must redeposit all of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in resti- tution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM-Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 as additional travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for foreign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Restitution account. Residents who are not holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts with a maturity of 12 months. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. With some exceptions, imports are free of licensing and ad- ministrative or quantitative restrictions. Some imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes coffee, specified items of machinery, certain types of meat, fish, and dairy products, sugar, certain textiles, explosives and inflammables, tobacco, and nonalcoholic beverages. Soybeans are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government. Foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presentation of relevant documents (import docu- ments, bills of lading, and letters of credit). Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of suppliers' credits. A value-added tax of 15 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods and services, other than capital goods, fresh fruits and vegetables, most foreign tourists' services, and travel tickets. A 2 percent additional duty is levied on imports of goods subject to the value-added tax. Specified imports of 50 commodities considered as luxury items are subject to a one-year noninterest-bearing deposit requirement of 15 percent of the value of imports, including customs du ty, purchase tax, and other charges (with the exception of the value-added tax) .' !On January 1, 1987 the deposit rate was reduced to 12 percent, and the rate is expected to be reduced by 3 percentage points each quarter until its elimination on January 1, 1988. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for paymen ts abroad on account of invisibles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$800 a traveler for each jou rney, of which up to US$500 may be in bank notes and the balance in traveler's or bank checks. A lower limit for tourist travel or the equivalent of US$500 a traveler for each jou rney applies in the case of children under 12 years of age. The business travel allowance is US$120 a day, up to a max imum of US$2,400 a trip (in addition to the standard allowance of US$800), which can be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, credit card charges, or other foreign exchange ins t rumen ts except cash.2 A surcharge of 20 percent is applied on the value of travel tickets purchased in Israel, and a tax of 15 percent is levied on purchases of ground services for tourism abroad which are prepaid through Israeli travel agencies.3 Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in the travel allowance. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of US$50 a person a trip. Israeli residents traveling abroad are subject on departure to a travel tax at the basic rate equivalent to US$100 wh ich is adjusted monthly by the consumer price index (the equivalent of US$50 for travel to Romania and no tax for travel to Egypt).4 Payments for hotel accommodation, land trans- port, and other related services under foreign package tours, along with other imports of services, are subject to the value-added tax of 15 percent. Residents may make support and gift paymen ts abroad up to $300 a mon th. The maximum exchange allowance for s tuden ts s tudy ing at institutions of higher education abroad is US$300 a year. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$100 and may not take out any Israeli bank notes. The right of a tourist to buy foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, is limited during a visit to US$5,000 a person over 18 years of age and to US$2,000 a person under 18 years. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality con- trol. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be surrendered or held in a PAT AM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad 2On April 23, 1987 the exchange allowance for tourist travel was raised to US$2,000 a traveler w i th no lower l im it for children. The business travel allowance was raised to US$ 150 a day up to a m ax imum of US$3,000 a trip. 3On March 28, 1987 the surcharge of 20 percent and the tax of 15 percent were abolished. 4W i th effect from March 8, 1987, the tax was set at the fixed rate of NIS 250, and the linkage to the consumer price index was abolished. 288 or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inpu ts directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs du t ies, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable movemen ts in domestic currency costs as measured by movemen ts in the weighted average rate of the sheqel against five major currencies, name ly, the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, the Netherlands guilder, the French franc, and the deutsche mark. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles mus t, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange in PAT AM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified con- vertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or w i th banks abroad. There are no limits on the amounts of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of inves tment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Inves tmen t, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these invest- ments. Approved investments (loan and equity) are granted an exemption from the compulsory deposit requirement. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "ap- proved enterprises," "approved inves tmen ts ," or "ap- proved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to enterprises (1) in the selected fields of indus try, tourism, transportation, and agriculture; (2) established in priority areas; or (3) which are export oriented or in the field of import substitution in some specific lines of production. Approved inves tment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 percent a year. Certain restrictions apply to borrowing in foreign cur- rency by residents. A freeze is in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by nonbank residents, other than sup- pliers' credits and loans w i th maturities of at least 30 mon ths. Nonbank residents may, however, contract loans in foreign currencies from resident banks subject to an interest surcharge of 1 percent. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not normally ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets. Residents may not buy foreign securities abroad, with the exception of specified types of Israeli f irms' securities issued abroad with the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may main- tain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Emigrants are permitted to trans- fer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equivalent of US$2,000 per year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase in Israel real estate and shares. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these inves tmen ts, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Investments abroad by Israeli residents are subject to a tax of 15 percent. Gold Gold bullion for indus try may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Gold bullion and coins for inves tmen t, or certificates conferring a right to gold bullion, must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer; beginning from January 1, 1984, resi- dents have not been permitted to buy gold bullion or coins for investment purposes. The following bullion coins are at present included in the list of gold coins for investment: (1) Krugerrand of South Africa; (2) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (3) 50 pesos of Mexico; (4) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (5) sovereigns of Great Britain; (6) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (7) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same ISRAEL manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 15 percent. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement August 1. The new sheqel was linked to a trade-weighted basket of five major currencies comprising the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, the French franc, and the Japanese yen. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The second of eight tariff cuts scheduled as part of the third stage in the recently negotiated U.S.- Israel free trade agreement became effective. Duties on products on List B of the agreement, including fresh grapefruit, certain chemicals, selected textile products, artichokes, avocados, and some high-technology products were reduced to 70 percent of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (Tokyo Round) tariff rate of January 1, 1986. August 1. The import deposit requirements on a number of imports were abolished, and the prohibition on pre- payments of suppliers' credit was lifted. Payments for Invisibles August 1. The following changes were made: (1) the remittance abroad by residents for support and gift pur- poses (suspended since July 1984) was permitted up to US$300 a year; (2) the monthly allowance for support payments to students studying at institutions of higher education abroad (previously US$200 and not affected by the suspension on other support payments since July 1984) was raised to US$300; and (3) the foreign currency allowance for business travel abroad in excess of the regular tourist allowance of US$800 per trip (previously available only through the use of a credit card or bank transfer) may now be taken in the form of traveler's checks or other foreign exchange instruments except cash. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy partici- pates w i th Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Re- public of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Ne th- erlands in the exchange rate and in te rven t ion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with th is agreement, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the sys tem, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for 20 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1986 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,351.1 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For outward transfers of resident-owned cap- ital, a non-interest-bearing deposit in lire of 15 percent must be lodged with the Bank of I ta ly, except in the case of direct investment abroad, even if made by loans. For the acquisition of shares of foreign inves tment f u n ds operating in Italy and investing at least 50 percent of the funds raised in Italy in Italian securities, the required deposit rate is 12.5 percent; no deposit is required in the case of foreign investment funds investing all of the funds raised in Italy in Italian securities. Outward portfolio investments up to 10 percent of the funds raised in the domestic market by mutual inves tment funds are, how- ever, exempt from the deposit requirement. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, intervene in the forward exchange marke t; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 18 mon ths in major convert- ible and externally convertible currencies.3 Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Residents are permitted to buy freely currency options 'Currencies off ic ia l ly quoted are Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, ECU s, F inn ish ma rkkaa, Greek drachmas, French francs, Irish pound s, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2The official rate is the average of the "fixing" quo ta t ions of the foreign exchange marke ts in Milan and Rome. 3These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. 290 from authorized banks for all transactions invo lv ing goods and services. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi, or UIC). All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing of Italian securities in Italy. Pay- men ts to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are made in internal lire and therefore are not subject to exchange control. The net external position of the resident banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses (1) the net foreign position in foreign currencies and lire together; (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; and (3) outstanding net forward transactions against lire, which are subject to a ceiling set for each bank. The banks are prohibited from main- taining a net foreign assets position. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which non- residents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts.4 The use of these accounts is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accoun ts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the Italians l iv ing or work ing abroad as well as "border-area" res iden ts are perm i t ted to ma in ta in w i th Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Currency Accoun ts denom ina ted in conto valutario cu r renc ies. They may be credited w i th rem i t tances ( inc lud ing bank notes) sent d i rec t ly to the bank from abroad (up to 80 percent of the ho lder's wage or salary earn ings) and w i th interest on the balance; they may be debited freely for conversion in to lire, for w i thdrawa ls in foreign bank notes, and for t rans fe rs abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area" res iden ts). These accounts may also be held by Italian represen ta t ives abroad and by Italian staff employed by international organizations located in Italy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for pay- ments to residents of Italy for current and capital trans- actions, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and from other Capital Accounts and with the proceeds from the liqui- dation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of investments, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested convertible currencies or externally convertible currencies in Italy in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the counter- value of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of inves tmen ts that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of currencies that were originally sold and for inves tmen ts in Italy, and balances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Ac- counts, or any other Special Account. Nonresidents may also maintain "foreign accounts in foreign exchange" to which may be credited foreign exchange receipts from abroad, transfers from other "foreign accounts in foreign exchange," payments from residents for authorized transactions and, in approved cases, receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a Ministerial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, and Reunion), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association, and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third coun- tries); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Al- bania, the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quantitative restrictions and goods that require a special license. Import liberali- zation is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, while very few quantitative restrictions remain for sub- zone A/3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports from countries in Zone B, as well as Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. Imports from non-EC countries of most products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all ITALY previous barriers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 10 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 10 million to Lit 100 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 100 million in value, an import document already completed by an authorized bank is required. Where settlement takes place more than 12 months after importation, the importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if set- tlement is to take place within five years after importation. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks pro- vide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used for import paymen ts, subject to a limit for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. A 30-day limit exists on balances held by residents in Foreign Exchange Accounts for foreign ex- change purchases to make payments abroad. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for payments for invisibles provided that the necessary doc- umen ts are submitted. Their authority to sell exchange for remittances as grants and aid is limited to Lit 2,500,000 a year, and approval of the UIC is required for transfers by immigrants in Italy for more than ten years if the amounts exceed certain limits or if the transfer is to a country other than the country of origin. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or inves tmen ts. Residents may use international postal money orders for authorized paymen ts, up to a maximum amount of Lit 2 million. The provisions governing deferred paymen ts and the time limit on balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts also apply to payments for services. Certain transactions (but not the related paymen ts) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All contracts for insurance of ships and aircraft must be approved by the Ministry of Indus t ry. There are no limits on expenditures for tourism. Res- idents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks foreign exchange equivalent to Lit 1,600,000 a person a trip, and additional expenditures for tourism may be met by bank transfers or the use of credit cards. Authorized banks may grant foreign exchange without limit for business, medical trea tmen t, and education, provided they are satisfied that this is jus t if ied in view of the duration and purpose of the trip. The limit on the amount of Italian bank notes that can be taken out by residents is Lit 400,000 in any denomination for each visit abroad.5 Nonresidents can freely take out foreign ex- 5Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 50,000 a day in domestic bank notes and coin, and the equivalent of Lit 50,000 a day in foreign notes and coin. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY change up to the equivalent of Lit 5 million w i thout showing proof that foreign exchange has been brought into Italy. They can also take out Lit 400,000 in Italian bank notes of any denomination. Importation of Italian bank notes from foreign banks is not restricted and effected by crediting the capital accounts at the Bank of Italy with the corresponding amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Espori) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 10 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 10 million to Lit 100 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 100 million in value, an export document already completed by an authorized bank is required. If settlement takes place more than 12 months before exportation, the exporter must effect the payments operations related to his export transactions through an authorized bank as his bank of domicile. For the settlement of exports, resident banks are allowed to grant credits denom ina ted in lire to foreign banks for a max imum period of 10 days. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in five years. Deferred payments for exports to non-OECD countries are per- mitted if settlement of at least 90 percent is to take place within 18 mon ths after exportation and the balance w i th in 24 months. Except in the case of exports to OECD countries on delayed payment terms of up to five years, settlements beyond 18 months from shipment are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade for amounts exceeding Lit 5 billion or by the UIC for amoun ts up to Lit 5 billion. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the M in is try of Foreign Trade, or (for up to Lit 50 billion) of the Au tonomous Agency for Export Credit Insurance (SACE), or of the Medi- ocredito if the payment term granted to the foreign importer is less than eight years, depending on whe ther the transaction will be covered by state insurance or financed at a preferential interest rate under Law No. 227/77. All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 15 days of effective receipt. Proceeds in U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for up to 60 days, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the UIC or among themselves. In cases where documentation is not in order at the time of surrender, proceeds may be posted to "Ordinary Waiting Accounts" for a period of up to 30 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary documents are not received un t il after the 30-day waiting period, the proceeds must be assigned to the UIC upon completion of the transaction and will 292 be converted in to lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the waiting period. Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, and in certain circumstances, in foreign bank notes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requ iremen ts as re- ceipts from exports. Shipping and insurance companies and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, and externally con- vertible European currencies; unu t i l ized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain foreign bank notes left over from trips abroad above the equivalent of Lit 100,000 but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and Lit 400,000 in Italian bank notes in any denom ina t ion. Capital Inward and outward movemen ts of nonresident capital are free, but most loans from nonres iden ts to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific au- thorization from the Min is try of the Treasury in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Trade; long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and some loans from certain German ins t i tu t ions to iden t if ied Italian residents do not require authorization. Italian residents are allowed to borrow abroad w i th in the following limits: for maturities of less than one year, Lit 1 billion; for maturities of one year to eight years, Lit 5 billion from OECD residents and Lit 1 billion from other countries' residents; for maturities of longer than eight years, Lit 0.5 billion. Loans connected with the acquisition of shares are liberalized, provided that the corresponding amorti- zation plan is not shorter than 36 months (as regards the average life of the loan); these loans are considered as direct inves tment and are not subject to the requirement of non-interest-bearing deposits. Repayment of loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for portfolio inves tmen ts, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movemen ts. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 15 percent of the amount transferred in a non-interest-bearing account with the Bank of Italy. If disinvestment takes place before one year beginning from the date of acquisition, a deposit must be maintained to the extent of 15 percent of the value of the inves tment for one year beginning from the date of acquisition. The same rate is applied to securities with a residual maturity ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of less than 12 mon ths. The rate is 12.5 percent for acquisitions of shares of foreign inves tment funds (unit trus ts) operating in I ta ly, provided that not more than 50 percent of the funds raised in Italy are invested abroad. Inves tmen ts in foreign securities by Italian mu tual funds are exempt, within a limit of 10 percent of their subscribed capital of the previous three mon ths. In addition, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requ iremen t, regardless of the date when the inves tment was made. Transfers among residents of shares of foreign inves tment funds authorized to operate in Italy are exempt from the deposit requirement. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent tha t, d is inves tment opera- tions occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Re inves tmen ts of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original inves tment was made prior to July 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EC institutions are also exempt. Prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for an Italian company to establish an overseas financial holding company; the parent company mus t, in ter alia, submit annual audited accounts of such a holding company to the M in is try. Foreign inves tment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent imp lemen t ing regulations. Foreign investments of any k ind, including both direct and portfolio inves tment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted free ly, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct inves tment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by credit and insurance institutions in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any form and without any limit.6 Direct inves tment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of bus iness as that of the Italian firm making the inves tmen t; other types of direct inves tment in such countries require special authorization from the M in is try of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these inves tmen ts also covers the re inves tment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous inves tmen ts (after crediting the proceeds of the d is inves tment to bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Inv is ib les, above). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 300,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for an account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign mutual funds requires prior approval. ITALY In practice, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requ iremen ts, including the invest- ment in Italian securities of funds raised in Italy. Residents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade after consultation with the Bank of Italy. Issues are normally restricted to interna- tional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection with donations and inheritances may be made free ly. The transfer of property of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 10 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in I ta ly, with the exception of unref ined gold im- ported under ministerial license for industrial purposes. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unref ined gold abroad. Authorized banks may acquire unrefined gold abroad, under authorization of the Ministry of the Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to sell it to Italian firms authorized by the Ministry of Foreign Trade for industrial use. Exports of wrought and semimanufac- tured gold, other than jewe l ry, are subject to licensing. Imports of un re f ined gold are not subject to value-added tax. Importation and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign coun try are prohibited in the absence of a special authorization. Imports of other gold coins for num isma t ic purposes are free but subject to value-added tax at 18 percent. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 14. Residents were permitted to buy freely cur- rency options from authorized banks for all transactions concerning goods and services. Imports and Import Payments January 16. Import paymen ts before the expiration of contractual terms were proh ib i ted. April 14. The ban on import payments before the expiration of contractual terms was removed. Payments for Invisibles 6Financial inve s tmen t, that is, inves tment not in tended to establish permanent re la t ions, is not considered direct inv e s tm en t. The regulations govern ing direct inves tment are also not applicable to participations in "holdings" abroad of any k ind. April 14. Nonresidents were allowed to re-export freely foreign bank notes up to an amount equivalent to Lit 5 million (the previous ceiling was Lit 1 million). 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exports and Export Proceeds January 16. A foreign currency financing requirement for exports on a deferred payment basis was introduced at 75 percent. April 14. The foreign currency export financing require- ment on a deferred basis was abolished. April 14. For the settlement of Italian exports, resident banks were allowed to grant credits denominated in lire to foreign banks for a max imum period of ten days. Proceeds from Invisibles August 8. Importation of Italian bankno tes from foreign banks was permitted without limit; the corresponding amounts can be transferred abroad by crediting the capital accounts at the Bank of Italy. Capital April 11. The "spot against forward" ceiling on sales and purchases of foreign exchange, applying to resident banks, was increased. The max imum maturity for forward transactions by residents and banks was extended from 12 to 18 mon ths, and other constraints on forward oper- ations were eased. April 14. The 15-day limit on balances held by residents in Foreign Exchange Accounts was extended to 30 days for foreign exchange purchased to make paymen ts abroad and to 60 days for foreign exchange resulting from exports. April 14. It was announced that, starting from June 30, 1986, the amount that domestic trust funds are allowed to invest abroad in exemption from compulsory non- interest-bearing deposit will be calculated with reference to their subscribed capital of the preceding three months, instead of the preceding six mon ths. August 8. The non-interest-bearing deposits that Italian residents are required to hold as a counterpart for the acquisition of foreign securities were reduced to 15 percent. If disbursement takes place before one year beginning from the date of acquisition, a deposit must be maintained to the extent of 15 percent of the value of the investment for one year beginning from the date of acquisition. The same rule was applied to securities with a residual value of maturity of less than 12 mon ths. August 8. Italian residents were allowed to borrow abroad within the following limits: for maturities of less than one year, Lit 1 billion; for maturities of one to eight years, Lit 5 billion from OECD residents and Lit 1 billion from other countries' residents; and for maturities of longer than eight years, Lit 0.5 billion. Loans connected with the acquisition of shares were liberalized, provided that the corresponding amortization plan is not shorter than 36 mon ths (as regards the average life of the loan). These loans were considered as direct investment and were subject to the requ irement of the non-interest- bearing deposits. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, for which the spot exchange rate in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is de term ined at an auction con- ducted twice a week by the Bank of Jamaica. Purchasers of foreign exchange in the auction pay their own bid price if their bids are successful, instead of the market-clearing price. Since November 1985, the selling rate for the U .S. dollar has been kept w i th in narrow margins of J$5.50 = US$1 by official in terven t ion in the auction. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were J$5.46 = US$1 and J$5.50 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange.1 The Bank of Jamaica's dealings in Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in specified currencies .2 For spot dealings w i th commercial banks in these currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 percent on sales. For currencies of countries that are not members of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR- ICOM), the commercial banks apply a commission charge varying between 2 cents and 15 cents per un it of foreign currency on sales and purchases. For currencies of CAR- ICOM members, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.3361 percent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 percent on purchases. Commercial banks are allowed to engage in forward transactions in respect of proceeds from nontraditional exports other than those to be surrendered to the Export Deve lopment Fund, and services other than tou r ism, subject to an aggregate limit of US$30 million on the banks' net uncovered positions. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica adm in is ters exchange control on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel (for which the commercial banks have au thor i ty to provide foreign exchange) and transfers from Ex ternal Accoun ts, all service paymen ts, including interest, divi- dends, and capital transfers require specific approval from 'W i th effect f rom February 2, 1987, exporters of m anu f a c tu r ed goods to non -CAR icoM coun t r ie s, ex c lud ing pe t ro leum p roduc ts and garments assembled from ma te r ia ls impor ted from the Un i ted States, are paid a rebate equal to 71/: pe rcent of f .o .b. export va lues. 2Aus t r ian sh i l l ings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian do l la rs, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, Irish pound s, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, Mexican pesos, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, U .S. dollars, Vene- zue lan bolivares, and the currencies of member coun t r ies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM ). The CARICOM member coun tr ies are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Be l ize, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guy an a, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. K i t ts and N ev i s, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the G renad ines, and Trinidad and Tobago. the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act as agents of the Bank of Jamaica only in respect of specified transac- tions, mainly in the trade sector. Since April 16, 1985, import licenses have been required only for basic foods tu f fs, motor vehicles, certain chemi- cals, fertilizers, pharmaceutical products, and wood prod- uc ts, and items potentially harmful to public health or security. Import licenses, when requ ired, are issued by the Trade Adm in is tra tor, who is responsible to the Minister of Indus t ry and Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or a foreign currency account.3 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonres iden ts, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts w i thout the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely be- tween nonres iden ts. External Accounts may be credited with paymen ts by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Au tho r i ty, with trans- fers from other External Accoun ts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and proceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked f u n ds may be used w i thout limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for inves tment in Jamaica dollar securities or local mortgages. Applications for the release of f u n ds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Since April 1984, all paymen ts from abroad to Jamaican hoteliers must be paid into a special account of the Bank of Jamaica, the Jamaican National Retained Account (JNRA). Hotels are allowed to obtain foreign exchange to satisfy their import requirements and service payments up to a limit of 20 percent of their lodgements. Net 3 All cu r renc ies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA amounts due to hotels are reimbursed by the Bank of Jamaica in Jamaican dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, South Africa are pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for basic foods tuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceu- tical products, and wood products, and items endangering public health or security. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of CARICOM. Certain food items and all motor vehicles may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation. Otherwise, goods may be imported freely without license. Effective March 1984, paymen ts for imports other than those cleared through customs before January 1983 were delegated to the commercial banks and may be made without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. In respect of such imports, the importer must present to his commercial bank a copy of invoices or other evidence of purchase and value, including, since January 1986, certification of value from the international agencies, together with doc- umentary evidence that the goods have been cleared through customs. Exchange Control approval is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000, but is generally granted. Importers may, in principle, buy foreign exchange forward for a period of one to six mon ths prior to the date of shipment of goods, but in practice this facility is little utilized. Certain goods are subject to consumption duties, whether they are imported or manufactured domestically. Imports are subject to customs duties which comply with the Common External Tariff arrangement of CARICOM. A 10 percent stamp du ty tax is also applied to imports, with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. On April 13, 1985 an additional stamp duty was imposed, at rates of 10 percent for raw materials, 20 percent for capital goods, and 30 percent for consumer goods, with the same exemptions. The stamp duties are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on c.i.f. value of the goods, including duties. The application of the tariff structure is modified by exemptions allowed to specified importers, under legislation designed to assist particular sectors. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income from emigrants' property in Jamaica, for remittances for family maintenance, or for cash gifts. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for family main- tenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are ap- proved net of taxation without restriction. A basic exchange allowance of US$56 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel, other than for 296 business or professional purposes, is made available to residents by authorized dealers.4 The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional purposes is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of US$125 a day for the United States and US$175 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their gross salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica bank notes not exceeding J$20 and other bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of US$56. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country not on the prohibited list.5 However, specific licenses are required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammuni- tion, explosives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu re, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers w i th in three mon ths from the date of sh ipmen t. Exporters of specified nontraditional products are allowed to sell for- eign exchange earnings forward, subject to fu l f i l lment of surrender requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a traveler. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in Jamaican currency. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, ir- respective of their destination. Inves tmen ts abroad by residents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they are expected to result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. The purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents also requires the approval of the exchange control authorities, but this is normally granted. Foreign exchange is normally not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. 4E f fec t ive January 14, 1987, the basic exchange allowance for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons was increased from the equivalent of US$56 to the equ iva lent of US$150 per person per calendar year. 5This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, South Afr ica, and the U .S .S .R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution With the exception of certain types of inves tment in residential and commercial real estate, all approved direct inves tmen ts in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted ''ap- proved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to remit all current pay- ments, including interest and dividends relating to the inves tmen ts, and will at any time be able to repatriate his original inves tment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. There is a fixed-term foreign currency deposit scheme for both residents and nonresidents. Accounts under this scheme may be credited with any means of paymen t, except cash or traveler's checks, but the transactions must be effected through a commercial bank; the deposits are freely repatriable upon ma tur i ty. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not permit- ted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent of the appraised value. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica. In the case of property not fu l ly developed, the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in ten equal installments, subject to a m in imum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000, except where the owner had previously received an undertaking JAMAICA that the inves tment in land carried approved status. If the property is fully developed, the balance can be remitted over three years. Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residen- tial lots may remit in full the proceeds of sale, provided the unit is not sold within two years of completion of the construction and the vendor has conformed with the Taxation and Exchange Control Acts. If the unit is sold within two years of completion, the investor may remit the original inves tment immediately, and the balance over three years, with a m in imum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emi- grated abroad or to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents, other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 27. Societe Generate de Surveillance was appointed to inspect imports for quality, quantity, and value prior to shipment. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The prin- cipal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The inter- bank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 was ¥ 160.1 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonres- ident banks and among themselves. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Indus try (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct inves tmen ts are under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers. Outward direct inves tment requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident w i th any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or paymen ts from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction Sys- tem covers 74 items, 23 of which have been communicated to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the remaining items fall under the state-trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained 298 authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, individ- ual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state trading include certain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, poppy straw, raw opium, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to two years before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require an import license from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made w i thout any limitation. Gifts and donations to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, wh ich approves the payment after ver ify ing its au then t ic i ty. However, remittances to rela- tives abroad, as well as other current paymen ts for inv is ib les, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any foreign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 million. Overseas deposits by resident individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 10 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, secu- rities, etc ., are permitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified des t ina t ions, and it may cover export vo lume, or export prices, or other conditions. Following expiration at end-March 1986 of the voluntary restraint arrangement on exports of pas- senger cars to the Un i ted States, the Government an- nounced its in ten t ion to limit voluntarily the quantities over the period April 1986 to March 1987. Exports of steel and some textile items to the Un i ted States are subject to quantitative restrictions. The quan t i ty and the prices of exports of video tape recorders to the EC are subject to monitoring by the Japanese Governmen t. At the end of 1986, there were 52 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 5 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transactions, 12 required prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval of manufacturers' agreements on domestic trans- actions in goods for export, and 35 required prior notice of a memorandum of an exporters' cooperative association in respect of export transactions. In addition, 206 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist countries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten ore), or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimport require individual licens- es; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open account or those involving payment not earlier than two years after sh ipmen t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are permitted unless specifically restricted. Such specific restrictions may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the minister or ministers concerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Other transactions are normally free. Under emergency conditions, most capital transactions not sub- ject to specific restrictions may be subject to prior approval; emergency conditions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the main- tenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments d iff icu l t; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to adversely affect Japan's money or capital market. A distinction is made between direct inves tment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, other types of inves tment that come under the direct inves tment regulations include (1) any acqui- sition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made pub l ic by the Securities Dealers Association) that reaches 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign ownership is also subject to the provisions for direct inves tmen t. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the JAPAN minister or ministers concerned consider the trans- action to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct inves tment with other countries. Acquisition of securities for portfolio through desig- nated securities firms can be freely made, but acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice w i thout a waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modifi- cation by the Minister of Finance if, in his opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) domestic and in- ternational financial markets, (2) Japan's international reputation, (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the notification period when the transaction under consideration is deemed unha rm fu l. Other trans- actions by nonresidents may be generally carried out freely. Outward inves tmen ts by residents in the form of loans, usance of not less than two years but exceeding one year, issue of yen-denominated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct investment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. The criteria for suspension or modification of specific aspects of such transactions are as in the preceding paragraph. Foreign currency deposits overseas by residents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Residents are permitted to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign cur- rency loans to residents; foreign currency or yen deposits of nonresidents as well as residents are subject to mini- mum reserve requirements adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese bank ing regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. The following prudential guidelines are applied to cap- ital transactions by financial institutions: (1) a limit on the purchase by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency- denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds issued by nonresi- 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN dents equivalent to 10 percent of the reserve fund s; (4) a ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds managed by trust banks equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets; (5) a ceiling on insurance companies' individual loans of ¥ 5 billion; and (6) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency-denominated securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 15 percent of their new worth (to be raised to 30 percent in 1987). Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion are free from licensing, but a customs house must be notified of transactions of more than 100 kilograms. External futures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Within the framework of an "Action Pro- gram for Improved Market Access" announced in July 1985, the coverage of the Generalized System of Prefer- ences (GSP) was extended to 5 additional agricultural products, and GSP rates on 19 items were reduced. January 10. An agreement was reached between Japan and the United States regarding MOSS (Market-Oriented Sector-Selective) discussions for the telecommunications, medical equipment and Pharmaceuticals, forestry prod- ucts, and electronics sectors. Among the main features were agreements to (1) eliminate Japanese tariffs on computer parts, central processing un i ts, and peripherals and eliminate U.S. tariffs on computer parts; and (2) reduce Japanese tariffs on forest products (veneer, ply- wood, Kraft liner, etc.) in 1987 and 1988. March 31. Changes in the authorization for acceptance of foreign test data on matters concerning standards and certification were introduced. These changes resulted in over one half of the improvements stipulated under the Action Program for Standards and Certification Systems. April 1. All quantitative restrictions on leather and leather footwear imports were eliminated. September 2. A bilateral agreement on trade in semi- conductors was reached between Japan and the United States, under which market access for U.S.-made semi- conductors in Japan would be improved. Exports and Export Proceeds February 13. Voluntary export restraints on motor vehicle exports to the United States for a one-year period beginning April 1, 1986 were announced. The volume of exports is to be limited to 2.3 million units, the same volume as that applied in the preceding fiscal year. March 31. The December 1985 measure, under which the Government provided ¥ 100 billion (for the period December 1985 to March 1986) of reduced interest rate 300 loans to small- and medium-sized firms exporting at least 20 percent of their output and suffering output losses of at least 10 percent due to the appreciation of the yen, expired. July 31. A bilateral agreement on trade in semiconduc- tors containing the following three major elements was concluded between Japan and the United States: (1) monitoring of semiconductor export prices by Japan; (2) improved market access for U.S.-made semiconductors in Japan; and (3) suspension of two antidumping inves- tigations against Japanese semiconductor producers in the United States. December 11. The Government expressed its intention to the EC to monitor in 1987 the quantity and prices of exports of the following products as in 1986: video tape recorders, color television tubes, color television sets, NC lathes and machining centres, passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, and forklift trucks. The restraint on Japan's exports of quartz watches to the EC will not be maintained. Capital February 1. Six foreign securities companies obtained membership in the Tokyo Stock Exchange. March 18. The limits on the purchase by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents and of foreign currency-denominated assets were raised to 25 percent of their total assets. April 1. The ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds managed by trust banks was raised to 25 percent of total assets. April 1. The following measures were introduced: (1) qualification standards for issuance of Euro-yen bonds was relaxed, so that single A-rated nonresident companies can now issue Euro-yen bonds and yen-denominated foreign bonds; (2) residents were permitted to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds; (3) the "seasoning period" for the sale of Euro-yen bonds to residents was reduced from 180 days to 90 days; and (4) the max imum maturity of Euro-yen CDs was raised from 6 months to one year. August 8. Trust banks were allowed to invest in foreign currency-denominated money and trust funds from resi- dents as well as yen-denominated trust funds from nonresidents. August 15. The limits on the purchase by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents and of foreign currency-denominated assets were raised to 30 percent of total assets. August 15. The ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds managed by trust banks was raised to 30 percent of pension trust assets. August 15. The limit of 10 percent of total asset growth on insurance companies' semi-annual increase in yen- denominated loans extended to foreign borrowers was removed, and the ceiling on their individual loans was increased to ¥ 5 billion. August 15. The limit on insurance companies' share of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution yen-denominated syndicated loans over 20 years to over- seas borrowers was removed. August 15. Credit cooperatives were allowed to invest up to 15 percent of their net worth in foreign currency- denominated securities issued by nonresidents. September 6. A self-imposed ceiling equivalent to 20 percent of the monthly growth of assets on purchases of foreign currency-denominated securities by the Post Office Insurance Fund was abolished. October 1. Investment of yen funds in foreign securities by authorized foreign exchange banks was exempted from control of the foreign currency position. December 1. The Japan Offshore Market began operations. JAPAN 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1986} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.387754 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Jordan dinar for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$2.9146 and US$2.8977, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.9829 and £ stg. 1.9712, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Forward exchange transactions in major currencies against the Jordan dinar are permitted in specified cases. For corporations or projects of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Ex- change Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import paymen ts and, within permitted annual limits, for paymen ts for educational expenses of Jorda- nians s tudy ing abroad and for various other purposes. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Indus t ry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Customs, Supply, and Agriculture. In addition, an Eco- nomic Security Committee is empowered to amend ex- isting regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except those of Jordanian goods to all Arab countries, and f ru i ts and vegetables to other countries) and invisibles must be collected, and surren- dered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan, or from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in 'Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss francs. 302 domestic currency; these accounts may be credited only with approved fund s. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonres ident accounts are permitted free ly. In addition, nonres iden ts, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be w i thdrawn freely in convertible currency, and the interest rate is fixed in accordance w i th rates prevailing in international markets. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may maintain foreign currency deposits w i th licensed banks in Jordan, provided that such deposit accounts are credited with foreign currencies from any source except the banking system and that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 100,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to re turn may open accounts in foreign currencies w i thout limits for a period of up to five years, after wh ich the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 100,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency may be opened at the Central Bank by governmental and semigovernmental entities, as well as the specialized credit ins t i tu t ions, licensed finance companies, and do- mestic corporations of vital national interest (including those companies in which the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capital), provided that ou ts tand ing balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1.0 million. This ceiling can be raised to JD 3.0 million in certain cases. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i tems2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural prod- ucts from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the M in is try of Indus try and Trade and are subject to a fee of 4 percent of the c. & f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange pe rm i t, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied 2These inc lude carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and m i l i ta ry u n i f o rm s. Certain of these commodities may be impor ted, however, from Arab Common Market coun tr ies and from countries w i th wh ich trade agreemen ts are in force. Impor ts of certain agr icu l tural commodities may be proh ib i ted in good crop years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institu- tions and individual permits of less than JD 500. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank, which normally is given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Imports to Free Zones With the discontinuation of Central Bank issuance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to provide foreign currencies to finance such transactions. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwait and Jordanian students in Yugoslavia, JD 50 for the United Kingdom, and US$125 for Algeria). Paymen ts for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' depen- den ts; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical t rea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.3 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible paymen ts except those of government depart- ments and certain approved ins t i tu t ions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, and those with a value under JD 500. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonres iden ts or savings of foreign nationals who in tend to re turn to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annua l ly for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a mon th to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a mon th for Kuwait and Jordanian students in Yugoslavia, JD 50 for the United Kingdom, and US$125 for Algeria), and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals re turn ing to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin and any amount in foreign JORDAN notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Nonresidents working in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordanian dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 monthly with a total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 annually. Furthermore, all trav- elers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in ac- cordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign ex- change surrendered within six mon ths of shipment. Ex- empt from this requirement are the proceeds from exports of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries, and proceeds of up to JD 500 from exports (excluding fru i ts and vegetables) to other countries. Exporters and resi- dents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if bank notes and traveler's checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coin.4 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported free ly, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified inves tment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Inves tmen t, profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in any convertible currency. Af ter two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual install- men ts in any convertible currency. The Inves tment Com- mittee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Companies Regis- tration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the 3All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 4Approval is not g iven for the cred i t ing of such Jordanian currency to a nonres ident account or for the rem i t tance abroad of the equ iva lent in foreign cu r rency. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity pro- ceeds, premiums, and interest are transferable in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central Bank. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR within margins of 2.25 percent. The middle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent below and above the rate thus determined. On December 31, 1986 buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 16.0181 and K Sh 16.0663, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Governmen t. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the administra- tion of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for current invis- ibles, and some capital paymen ts. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. The responsibility for issuing import licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer in Kenya before orders are placed abroad. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director to the Central Bank. The quota system is administered by the Import Management Committee (IMC), and the Officials Import Committee (OIC) deals with policy issues on imports. Both of these committees are composed of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Planning and National Development, Commerce and Indus try, and the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry deals with export promotion and issues special licenses for the export of restricted goods such as maize and other food products. Most other goods may be exported with special licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Ugandan shillings, and Zambian kwacha. an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of coun- tries other than South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South African currency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Governmen t, or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. All imports are classified into four schedules: Schedules IA, IB, IIA, and IIB, and are subject to import licensing. All private sector imports require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders are placed. Schedule I consists of a list of high-priority items, including a subschedule IA of items for which licenses are approved by the Director of Internal Trade, and foreign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank; the approval of licenses is in principle automatic, though approval may sometimes be withheld in cases where overstocking is thought to be taking place. Quotas are applied to items under subschedule IIB. Subschedule IIA includes high-priority (mainly petroleum, cereals and fertilizer) items whose importation requires authorization by a state agency; and subschedule IIB contains items that are domestically produced or whose substitutes are available from domestic indus try, and consumer goods. In principle, importation of items on subschedules IIA and IIB is limited to importers who have been granted 2Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA foreign exchange quotas, bu t, in practice, most importers are allowed to import under the two schedules. Quotas for schedule IIA are set so as to satisfy expected demand, and import licenses up to the quotas are given automat- ically. The importers' quotas for schedule IIB, on the other hand, are item-specific. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 percent of the cost and freight value of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs en try. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equ ipmen t, which are regarded as a contribution toward equ i ty capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports with an f.o.b. value in excess of K Sh 40,000 are sub ject to preshipment inspection as to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, and price. A ''Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before sh ipmen t, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports un t il th is "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured w i th companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current paymen ts without limitation or up to established limits. Amoun ts above these limits as well as other current paymen ts may be approved adm in is tra t ive ly, and most current paymen ts are in practice unres tr ic ted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a full scholastic year3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and den t is ts) and have not been in the country for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their mon th ly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a mon th; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, educational expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances in- cluding savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigration within that period. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any f u n ds for educational support to s tuden ts at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. 306 Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities w i th at least five years to ma tu r i ty, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate com- panies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round- trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years. Holders of one-way t icke ts who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Commercial banks may sell foreign ex- change for business travel to Tanzania and Uganda up to K Sh 400 a night for a max imum period of ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 1,500 a day for a maximum period of 20 days. There is a once-only hajj pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 12,000 for adults, which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance w i th in the preceding two years. Nonresident travelers may take out freely any unutilized balance of foreign currency notes they brought in upon en t ry. Res- idents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on re tu rn, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovern- mental travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All regular and proven exporters are registered with the Central Bank. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural prod- ucts require special licenses and may be subject to restriction to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic marke t. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported w i thout special licenses other than exchange control approval. Coffee is marketed through the Coffee Board of Kenya. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within three mon ths of exportation and offered to an authorized dealer in Kenya for conversion into ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Kenya shillings. Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for compensation equivalent to 20 percent of the f.o.b. value. About 700 export items, other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyre thrum, horticultural products, petroleum prod- ucts, soda ash, and most goods produced with raw material inputs not subject to import du ty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on exportation of their currencies. The import of domestic bank notes is prohibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual installments not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted w i th in the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The inves tment of foreign funds in Kenya is not generally restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the inves tmen t. Foreign and domestic inves tment in specified types of production require approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned KENYA or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bul- lion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 28 and June 30. The central rate was adjusted to K Sh 18.58363 - SDR 1 in February and to K Sh 19.135213 = SDR 1 in June. These two changes together represented a devaluation of 7.3 percent with respect to the previous central rate established on August 16, 1985. Imports and Import Payments July I. The 1986/87 budget (July 1-June 30) introduced the following changes in import duties: (1) the import du ty was abolished on solar models used to generate energy for irrigation and rural households; (2) the import du ty on insulating varnishes was reduced from 75 percent to 30 percent; (3) duties on sensitized plates and films for x-ray facilities were set at 35 percent compared with their previous du ty - f ree status; and (4) the du ty on infusion solution was increased by 30 percent to 50 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds July L The 1986/87 budget announced that the list of items eligible for export compensation would be reduced from 2,000 items to about 700 items, with a view to streamlining the export compensation scheme. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian dollar; a small amount of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the author- ities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Kiribati formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22, 1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be settled in Australian currency or in any foreign currency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies by residents in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with an au- thorized foreign exchange dealer, of which the only one is the Bank of Kiribati. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. A limited range of goods are prohibited for health, safety, or 1U.S. dollar, Fiji dollar, pound sterling, New Zealand dollar, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, deutsche mark, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, Papua New Guinea kina, Solomon Islands dollar, Swiss franc, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private imports, are imposed for revenue purposes. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions or limits imposed on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct inves tmen t. Approval by the Foreign Investment Commission is required for all inves tmen ts. Export- promoting or import-substituting investments are pre- ferred. Under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, investors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials, and a tax holiday of up to five years. Repatriation of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade- weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention cur- rency. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 857.90 and W 864.90, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 857.50 and W 865.30, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward trans- actions not only in foreign currencies but also between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracting in respect of interbank transactions. In forward contracts between the Korean won and foreign currencies, the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer cannot exceed one year. In addition, a forward contract between a foreign ex- change bank and a nonbank resident customer must be related to a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchan- dise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Governmen t's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital trans- actions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for withdrawals of foreign means of payment and purchases of other foreign means of paymen t, or for sales to a foreign exchange bank in exchange for domestic means of payment or payments for approved transactions. The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan fund s. KFX imports are classified as auto- matic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are on a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On Decem- ber 31, 1986, out of 7,915 basic items on the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 669 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. How- ever, in order to limit increases in recently liberalized imports, the authorities have the right to place items on an import surveillance list, which means that approval from the Foreign Traders' Association is required before an import license can be opened. At end-December 1986, only 106 items were on the surveillance list. [In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the Fund that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund 's Articles of Agreement. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, ordinary exporters are required to export a m in imum value of US$0.5 million for at least one or two calendar years. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. A 15 percent advance deposit is required when opening usance (deferred pay- ment) or sight letters of credit. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. To limit increases in recently liberalized import items, ad jus tment tariffs of up to 100 percent may be applied in addition to the basic tariff rates. Ad jus tment tariffs may be applied only to recently liberalized items; they are subject to review every six months, up to a max imum cumulative period of three years. Emergency tariffs of up to 40 percent may be applied temporarily to discourage non- essential imports (mainly luxu ry goods) or to assist a domestic indus try facing in ju ry due to a surge in imports. As of end-December 1986, five items were subject to ad jus tment tariffs and two items were subject to emer- gency tariffs. The Government also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 percent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1986 it had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 percent ad valorem is levied on most imported goods. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are li- censed automatically. In addition, Korean companies are authorized to use foreign exchange for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 each trip as the basic travel allowance, plus US$200 a day (if the period of travel is in excess of 10 days), or up to US$2,000 as a mon th ly allowance for living expenses (if the period of travel is in excess of 60 days); additional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. Exceptions to the above limits apply as follows: (1) the basic mon th ly allowance for students living abroad is US$1,000 per individual and US$1,500 per fam i ly; and (2) the travel allowance for persons working abroad and for persons visiting relatives or friends residing abroad is US$1,000 a person, with no daily or mon th ly allowance. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the coun try, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign 310 exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000. The import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank for ascertaining the bona fides of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All foreign inves tmen ts and loans by residents to nonresidents require approval. Foreign exchange allow- ance for emigration is subject to a limit of US$100,000 for each household. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances up to US$20,000; for remittances over US$20,000, authorization from the Bank of Korea is required. Regulations governing foreign in- vestments in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows. a. Foreign investment The Amended Foreign Capital Inducement Act (1983), which came into effect on July 1, 1984, provides that direct inves tment will be allowed in all indus tr ies, except those specified in a "negative" list; previously, direct inves tment was allowed only in indus tr ies belonging to a "positive" list. As of December 31, 1986, the negative list comprised 237 out of a total of 999 industrial sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 76 percent. The negative list distinguishes "prohibited" and "restricted" sectors. The former are activities reserved exclusively for the Government or public entities, or those that may be injurious to public health or moral standards. Restricted activities are no t, in general, open to foreign inves tmen t, but specific projects may be approved on a case-by-case basis. Partnership with local firms is no longer required of foreign-invested companies. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that make a significant con- tribution to improving the balance of payments and to those accompanied by the transfer of advanced technol- ogy. Acquisition of land by foreign-invested companies is subject to the approval of provincial and local govern- ments. Investment approval is now typically granted w i th in 30 days. The overseas remittance of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor is freely permitted. Since July 1984, the repatriation of foreign capital has also been freely permitted; prior to that date, the repatriation of foreign capital was permitted only after an initial inves tment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution period of two years, and only up to an annual limit of 20 percent of the originally invested amount. b. Loans Authorization is required for foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing of more than US$1 million and with a maturity in excess of three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. To be eligible for approval, commercial loans must have a minimum maturity of eight years, a maximum interest rate of LIBOR plus 5/s percent (long- term prime rate in Tokyo (LTPR) plus 1A percent, in the case of yen-denominated loans), and a maximum com- mitment fee of 3/s of one percent. Capital goods imports may be financed by foreign loans up to a maximum of 85 percent of the purchase price, and the contracting of new general purpose cash loans has been suspended. Com- mercial loans contracted by foreign investors may not exceed 50 percent of the value of the foreign investment. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Regu- lations governing the use of foreign borrowing for short- term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At end-December 1986, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan! (due to their geographic proximity) and 60 days for imports originating in other countries. Subject to certain ceilings, foreign bank branches can enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of l/2 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Each bank's ceiling is reduced by an amount equivalent to the value of its CDs issued domestically. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for industrial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 10. The margin between buying and selling rates for foreign exchange telegraphic transfers was increased from base rate plus or minus 0.25 percent to base rate plus or minus 0.45 percent. Imports and Import Payments February 27. The tariff rate on crude oil imports was raised from 1 percent to 5 percent. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. KOREA April 4. The tariff rate on crude oil imports was raised from 5 percent to 12 percent. June 5. The tariff rate on crude oil imports was raised from 12 percent to 15 percent (the rate was raised to 24.5 percent on January 1, 1987). July 1. A total of 302 items were removed from the restricted imports list, and 1 item was added to the list. The net effect of these measures was to raise the number of automatically approved import items from 6,945 to 7,246, or from 87.7 percent to 91.5 percent of the total of 7,915 items listed under the CCCN 8-digit classification. Five newly liberalized items were made subject to ad- jus tment tariffs at rates of 10 percent over and above the regularly applicable tariff rates (15-25 percent). At the same time, adjustment tariffs were abolished on the two items previously subject to such tariffs, and the emergency tariff on another item was removed. These changes left five items subject to adjustment tariffs and two items subject to emergency tariffs. July 1. The number of products listed as ineligible under the customs du ty refunding system was reduced from 78 to 54, with the addition of 4 items and the removal of 28 items. September 1. Importation of foreign cigarettes up to 1 percent of domestic consumption was permitted. September 12. The tariff rate on rye seed imports was lowered temporarily from 7 percent to zero; the reduction would apply only to imports during September-December 1986. October 27. The list of industries eligible for customs duty reductions was amended: manufacturing of metallic film, optical recording media, and synchronizer hubs was included and manufacturing of air hammers, loaders, cranes, chemical machinery, and combination meters was excluded. Payments for Invisibles July 31. Two foreign firms were authorized to under- write compulsory fire insurance, which had previously been reserved exclusively for Korean firms. Capital January 1. Foreign branches of Korean banks were permitted to issue won-denominated traveler's checks. July 10. The fixed yield on foreign exchange swaps by foreign branch banks with the Bank of Korea was reduced from 3/4 percent to l/2 percent. July 10. The maximum maturity of import usance bills for non-oil imports was reduced from 90 days to 60 days. August 7. Eligibility requirements for approval of new foreign commercial loans were tightened to discourage such borrowing, while ensuring that Korean borrowers contracted foreign loans on the best possible terms. The measures included: (1) an increase in the m in imum ma- turity, including grace period, to eight years (previously, five years) for new commercial loans; (2) a reduction in the maximum interest rate on U.S. dollar-denominated loans to LIBOR plus 5/8 percent (previously, LIBOR plus 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 7/8 percent) or, in the case of yen-denominated loans, to LTPR plus 1A percent (previously, LTPR plus !/z percent); (3) a reduction in the maximum loan commitment fee to 3/s of one percent (previously, l/2 percent); (4) a reduction in the maximum value of loans contracted for capital goods imports to 85 percent (previously, 100 percent) of purchase price; (5) a prohibition on the contracting of new general purpose cash loans; and (6) a limit on the value of commercial loans contracted by foreign investors equivalent to 50 percent of the foreign capital investment (previously, no limit). In addition, financial institutions were prohibited from granting commercial loan guaran- tees; only loans without payments guarantees or with guarantees by affiliated companies in the same business group would be permitted. August 22. Regulations governing the contracting of external and foreign currency loans were tightened fu r ther with the adoption of the following measures: (1) domestic banks and foreign bank branches were prohibited from granting foreign currency loans for the purchase of do- mestic machinery or for repayments due on other foreign currency loans; (2) the maximum value of foreign currency loans that could be obtained from domestic banks and foreign bank branches was reduced to 80 percent (pre- viously, 100 percent) of the value of invisible paymen ts or of repayments due on external commercial loans; (3) the max imum maturity of foreign currency loans from domestic banks and foreign bank branches for purposes of financing imports of raw materials was reduced from 90 days to 60 days. In the case of such imports from Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwant, or the Philippines, the applicable limit would be reduced from 90 days to 30 days on grounds of their geographic proximity; (4) the use of import usance bills was restricted to goods with tariffs of 20 percent or below (previously, 30 percent or below); (5) the max imum maturity of import usance bills was reduced from 60 to 30 days in the case of imports from Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwant, and the Philippines on grounds of their geographic prox im i ty; (6) branches of foreign banks were authorized to raise funds locally by issuing certificates of deposits (CDs). However, limits on each bank 's foreign currency swaps with the Bank of Korea would be reduced by an amount equivalent to its sale of CDs; and (7) regulations were revoked, which had previously permitted foreign bank branches to raise their foreign currency swap limits with the Bank of Korea by raising bank capital above the required m in imum, by holding excess reserves, or by holding unremitted profits. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies that takes into account Kuwa i t's trade and financial relations with other countries. Following a period between April and August 1984 when two exchange rates (a ''declared rate" for documented commercial transactions, and a more depreciated "financial rate" for capital and specified current transactions) were applied, a unitary exchange rate was in place by the end of August 1984. For exchange transactions with local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets margins of 0.0625 percent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.29253 and KD 0.29294, respec- t ive ly, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On April 5, 1963 Kuwait formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. A limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruit and vegetables; licenses, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipes, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered • In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. Imports of industrial equip- men t, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for one-time use. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial establishments after the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the Ministry of Oil. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. Importation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork or foods tuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, and used vehicles over five years old) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. During 1986, customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this con- tex t, the customs du ty was increased on several imports, including raw and processed a lum inum, paints, carpets, commercial refrigeration un i ts, central air conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponge. In total, some 46 items receive such protection from the Government. The max- imum du ty imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is in excess of 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs du ty at a m in imum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foods tuffs are exempt from import duties. Beginning from September 1, 1983, and in concert with other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates), import duties in Kuwait have been stabilized at the prevailing rate of 4 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fa ts, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, bu t ter, olive oil, fresh f ru i ts, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Indus try. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange control restraints on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. Beginning from 1983, the participation of the nationals of countries of the GCC in companies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks in the official Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries, but dealings are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar-denomi- nated bonds in the Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1986, 26 Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed, and foreigners were permitted to sell and buy these bonds in the Exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any fo rm, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanu- factured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 1. Import tariffs on a number of products considered similar to those produced domestically were increased. These products include raw and processed aluminum, paints, carpets, commercial refrigeration units, central air conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponge. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Kip (KN). On December 31, 1986 the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the State Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the central bank) was KN 10 = US$1; this rate is used only for customs valuation and certain other accounting pur- poses. Foreign exchange transactions are effected at a premium exchange rate of KN 95 per US$1, with the following exceptions: the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade applies preferential exchange rates for private inward remittances by Lao nationals (KN 270 per US$1) and for purchases of foreign exchange from tourists and non-Lao residents (KN 108 per US$1); limited quantities of foreign exchange are sold at the rate of KN 300 per US$1 to private importers participating in a joint cooperative venture with the municipality of Vientiane; and the municipality of Vientiane buys foreign exchange in the free market at a rate of KN 420 per US$1 for checks and KN 400 per US$1 for notes. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the exchange rate of KN 95 per US$1. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the central bank, handles all official foreign exchange trans- actions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the National Bank, which also administers exchange controls. Most foreign trade has been nationalized, and applications for imports through official channels must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance. Private mer- chants holding business licenses may, however, import and export basic goods under the control of the Foreign Trade Department. The Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL) carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value of each export or import transaction. The SCL directly distributes the imported commodities and pays the import taxes. It values mer- chandise received under foreign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 percent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirement is imposed on receipts or payments, bu t, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bi- 'Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. lateral trading arrangements covering all commodity trade with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. The bilateral trading arrangements are for a period of five years and are implemented through annual protocols, with annual limits on the deficits that Laos can incur for transactions with the partner countries; the deficits are in principle to be settled by means of trade transactions within six months from the end of the year of occurrence of the deficit; in some cases, however, such deficits may be converted into long-term loans. Imports and Import Payments The SCL has the monopoly on imports of investment goods, industrial inputs, and basic consumer goods. An annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, based on requests furnished by each government ministry, prov- ince, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw materials, machinery, and basic commodities, including rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months during the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the year if it is not utilized; state enterprises may modify their import requirements during the year, subject to the approval of the Planning Committee. Individuals are allowed to export and import commodities outside the SCL monopoly, provided that they submit a quarterly foreign trade plan specifying the way in which their imports will be financed. Settlement for imports must be channeled through the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Gov- e rnmen t 's payments in foreign exchange during the fiscal year. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Export taxes are levied at rates ranging between 3 percent and 40 percent, depending on the commodity. State enter- prises normally must surrender their foreign exchange earnings to the central bank, but in some cases enterprises are authorized to retain a specified proportion of their foreign exchange earnings in a special account at this bank; funds in such special accounts can then be used by the enterprise to import machinery and spare parts, as well as to cover certain prescribed operational expenses in foreign exchange. These amounts are not included in the annual import plan. A similar provision holds for provincial governments. The SCL has a monopoly on 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC exports of timber, rice, mineral ore, coffee, cardamom, and stick lac. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the country but may not take it abroad except by authorization of the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The municipality of Vientiane began pur- chasing foreign exchange in the free market at the rate of KN 42° Per US$1 for checks and KN 400 per US$1 Prescription of Currency July 24. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with the U.S.S.R. covering the period 1986-90. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 87.00 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes on goods and services on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on an exchange rate of US$1 = LL 10. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with Poland, with which Lebanon has a bilateral trade and payments agreement, may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammun i t ion, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year- round or during a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, wh ich, in principle, may be imported only by the Governmen t, and citrus f ru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. The Government has a monopoly over petroleum imports. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and telephone wires, and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers are in possession of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A prior deposit in a local-currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit must be placed by importers with their banks; such deposits are not required to be deposited by the banks with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipalities tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000; LL 1.5 per mill for import values between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000; and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilograms; and 40 piastres a kilogram over 2,000 kilograms. The rate of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 percent, and that on alcoholic beverages is LL 4 a liter, or LL 145 for a case of whiskey containing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammunition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital paymen ts or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold through the free market. Banks are permitted to pay interest on non- resident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve requirement; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to foreign currency deposits and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain net foreign currency positions up to 15 percent of the amount of their own capital. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits. Nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Inves tment Insurance Scheme, new foreign inves tmen ts are insured against losses arising 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded, The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Lesotho is the Loti (p lural ma lo t i ), wh ich is pegged to the South Afr ican rand at M 1 = R 1. Und er the Common Mone tary Area (CMA) agreement the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The p r inc ipal in t e rv en t ion cu r rency is the U .S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the b u y i ng and selling ra tes for the U .S. dollar were US$0.45450 and US$0.45350, re spec t ive ly, per M 1. Subject to certain l im i t a t ion s, au tho r ized dea lers are perm i t ted to conduct forward exchange opera t ions. The South Afr ican Reserve Bank p rov ides forward cover; for private sector t ransac t ions, such cover is g iven to au thor ized dealers based on the m idd le spot rate ad jus ted by a percentage factor announced f rom t ime to t ime. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A dual exchange rate sys tem (d iscon- t inu ed in February 1983) was re in t roduced in Sep tember 1985. Und er the sys tem, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and o ther inv e s tm en ts owned by non -CMA res iden ts cannot be transferred in foreign cu r r en cy, but must be re ta ined in the form of " f inanc ial rand" ba lances. Such balances are t rans fe rab le among non re s iden ts at a freely de te rm ined exchange rate. On Augu st 2, 1986 the scope for inv e s tm ent of the "f inanc ial rand ," wh ich officially was restricted to quo ted secur i t ies of manu fac- tu r ing en te rp r ises, was broadened to cover unquo ted secur i t ies, the es tab l ishment of new compan ies, and the acqu is i t ion of proper ty. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), which is an exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these three coun- tries became effective on April 1, 1986. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external currency transactions. Authority to approve certain types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to estab- lished limits. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions and in- surance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs entry. Lesotho does not maintain any bilateral payments agreements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts to non re s iden ts for cu r rent t ransac t ions, a l though subject to con t ro l, are not n o rm a l ly res t r ic ted. Au tho r i ty to approve some types of cu r rent p aym en ts has been delegated to au tho r ized dealers up to es tab l ished l im i t s. The basic annual exchange a l lowance for tou r ist travel to ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies ou ts ide the CMA region— Ma law i, Mozamb ique, Zamb ia, and Z imbabwe — is M 4,000 per adu lt and M 400 per c h i l d; the correspond ing annu al a l lowance for tou r i st t ravel to o ther coun t r ies is M 6,000 in a ca lendar year for an adu lt and M 3,000 for a c h i l d. The a l lowance for bu s ine ss t ravel to ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies is M 4,000 in a ca lendar year at rates not exceed ing M 400 a d ay; the co r respond ing l im i ts for bu s ine ss travel to o ther coun t r i es are M 10,000 and M 500, re spec t ive ly. A h igher basic a l lowance can be ob ta ined for med ical and bus iness t rave l. Em ig rant a l low- ances can be transferred th rough the financial rand ma rke t, up to M 100,000 a f am i ly or M 50,000 a pe rson. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are con- sidered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonres iden t, or a resident. Certain tax incen- tives for inward direct inves tment are provided to man- ufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual max imum of M 100,000 a family un i t. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile on ly, with a max- imum value of M 20,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The scope for inves tment of the "financial rand," which originally was restricted to quoted securities of manufacturing enterprises, was broadened to cover nonquoted securities, the establishment of new compa- nies, and the acquisition of property. Exchange Control Territory April I. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement between Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland became effective. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 - US$1. There is no official intervention. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Ben in, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Arrears are maintained with respect to import and other external paymen ts. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions by the Ministry of Commerce, Indus try, and Transportation and the National Investment Commission to protect local indus try. These items include automobile batteries, exercise books and note pads, insecticides, plastic footwear, rubber cups and bucke ts, plastic products, liquefied bleaches, powdered detergents, PVC pipes, matches, cardboard boxes, tow- els, roofing sheets, paint, paper napk ins, sugar, toilet tissues, wheat flour, bottled carbonated dr inks, portland cement, plywood, and liquefied petroleum gas. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, used cloth- ing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. In ad- dition, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic lit- erature, and narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. Petro- leum is imported by the Liberia Petroleum Ref in ing Company, and by the mining, rubber, and logging com- panies for their own use; a private company is the sole distributor of aviation fue l. The Liberia Produce Market- ing Corporation (LPMC) has a legal monopoly on com- mercial rice importation. However, licenses to import rice are issued from time to time to private distributors by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transpor- tation, in consultation with the LPMC. A surcharge of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to as- certain the country of origin, the quality, the quan t i ty, and the value of all goods to be exported to Liberia. Both 'U.S. dollar notes, which used to form a major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared from circulation. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist, and the U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transactions, while abnormally high commissions are charged by commercial banks for their sales of offshore fund s. final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice have been temporarily suspended. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild ani- mals, cement, agricultural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely, and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safe- guard the export monopoly of the LPMC. Twenty-five percent of export proceeds over and above any other arrangement that may already exist between exporters and the Government for the offshore payment of some of their obligations to the Government are required to be surrendered to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent per troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, other than a limit of $1,000 a person on capital export in the form of cash. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 percent du ty exemption on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a fur ther two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued free ly, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments April 15. Preshipment inspection of imports was re- quired to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan t i ty, and the value of all intermediate and final goods 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA imported into Liberia, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds May 28. A foreign exchange surrender requirement was introduced, which required that 25 percent of the foreign exchange earned from all exports over and above any other arrangements that may already exist between ex- porters and the Government for the offshore payment of some of thdr obligations to the Government be surren- dered to the National Bank of Liberia against local currency. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 - SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 = SDR 2.60465. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of the 17 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates vis-a-vis the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, as of the end of December 31, 1986, was LD 0.31388 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Light Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th other countries are made in convert- ible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, but paymen ts for Libyan oil exports are not accepted in U .S. dollars. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, autho- rized banks have authority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval 'Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Saudi Arabian r iya ls, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, Tun is ian d inars, and U.S. dollars. of the Central Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertak- ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contrac- tors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence bu t, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his coun try of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qua l ify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his coun try of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports included in the annual Commodity Budget are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises with- out license. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. How- ever, imports not included in the Commodity Budget are subject to licensing. Resident and nonres ident firms un- dertaking development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual Commodity Budget and not available locally. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gove rnment agencies may act as commercial agents, inc lud ing import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits require central bank approval. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained 2These inc lude mineral water, f ru it ju ice s, in s tant tea, cer ta in types of coffee, green vegetables, pou l t ry, preserved meats and vege tab les, alco- holic beverages, peanu ts, fresh f r u i t, oriental rugs, soaps, enve lopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and fu r s. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA from the Secretariat of Economy and, if the import is to be made on a letter-of-credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank w i thout a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange perm i t, w i th in two mon ths of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The ap- proval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all paymen ts by res iden ts. Imports are subject to customs du t ies and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 percent of the applicable customs du ty. All Tunisian products and cer- tain Moroccan products are exempt from du t ies. Payments for Invisibles Remittances from nonres ident accounts maintained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits specified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enter- prises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each mon th if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the emp loyer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and board at worksites in remote areas will be made available free of charge by the employer in accordance w i th applicable Libyan laws and regulations; (2) nonres iden ts employed by the Libyan private sector may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries, provided that the mon th ly net remittance does not exceed LD 40 for agricultural and unskilled workers, and LD 60 for technical workers. In general, nonres iden ts may not transfer income derived from overtime work. In addition to limits on transfers, there is an upper limit of LD 400 on the value of goods that nonres iden ts going abroad permanen t ly can take; the value in excess of th is allowance is deducted from the transferable portion of earnings. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical ins t i tu t ions are ex- empt from these regulations. Banks may issue trave ler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonres ident workers and technicians w i th in the limits men t ioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Additional amoun ts may be granted in special circum- stances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota. Tem- porary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Travelers from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya may not take out Libyan currency. All other paymen ts for invisibles, as well as paymen ts in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, 324 require prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the coun try may bring w i th them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable ins trumen ts in unlimited amounts; these must be declared to the cus toms. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, w i th the exception of a m in imum local expenditure of US$50 for each day spent in the coun t ry. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Inv e s tm ent Law No. 37 of Ju ly 31, 1968, foreign capital inves ted in projects deemed to contribute to the economic develop- ment of the coun t ry, as well as prof i ts thereon, may be transferred freely to the coun try of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described above in the section under Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in indus tr ial ven tu res set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requ i remen ts, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in ex- porting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying de- grees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in Libya only by Libyans. Non-res iden t-owned capital that is not perm i t ted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonres ident Accoun ts, above). Res iden ts require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA permission from the Secretariat of Economy and Light Indus try to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The inves tment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manu- facture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 18. The Libyan dinar was pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 = SDR 2.80. May 1. Margins of 7.5 percent around the fixed rate relationship of the Libyan dinar to the SDR were intro- duced and the exchange rate of the Libyan dinar was depreciated by 7.5 percent vis-a-vis the SDR within the established margins. Prescription of Currency January 5. Payments for Libyan oil were no longer accepted in U.S. dollars. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly with reference to a basket of several currencies. The weight assigned to each currency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single in terven t ion currency, al- though the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagascar ad jus ts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies1 which it quotes. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1986 the midpoint rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagascar was FMG 769.81 = US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are considered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of Imports in the Ministry of Commerce. With the exception of a few traditional prod- ucts, exports may be made freely. Arrears are maintained with respect paymen ts. to external Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Cen- tral Bank in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral paymen ts agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between non- residents and for explicitly authorized transactions be- tween residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 326 Blocked Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Commerce before they are permitted to engage in import activities. All imports are subject to an annual import program, the overall value of which is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministries of Commerce and Indus try, and the Central Bank. The Ministry of Commerce allocates quotas to importers within the overall limit of the import program, and licenses are issued freely up to the limits of those quotas. There are two categories of quotas: those open to merchants and those open to industrial enterprises and other im- porters who are final users of the product. The import of certain items, including alcoholic beverages, rice, and wheat flour, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government-owned agricul- tural trading firm, SINPA. All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. However, these transactions are conducted by the authorized banks within the framework of the priorities defined by the competent Ministries and in accordance with the financing terms agreed between the Central Bank and the authorized banks. Since mid-1981 annual import programs have not been strictly implemented due to foreign exchange difficulties. In practice, an ad hoc committee (Comite Technique des Paiements Exterieurs}, consisting of representatives of all ministries concerned, the Central Bank, and the commercial banks, and chaired by the Minister of Finance and Economy, meets on a weekly basis to administer the limited available foreign exchange and to ensure that the actual imports are in line with programmed priorities and do not exceed foreign exchange availabilities.2 In the event that the total amount of applications does not exceed the monthly amount of foreign exchange allocated, the subsequent foreign exchange authorization is issued for the full amount requested; otherwise, the amounts applied for are reduced proportionately, and on a non- discriminatory basis, to the overall monthly allocation. The foreign exchange authorizations must be issued to the applicants on the fifteenth working day of the same 2Under new liberalized import arrangements, which came into effect on January 2,1987, foreign exchange allocations are set aside on a monthly basis for imports of spare parts, raw materials, small equipment goods, and nonfood consumer goods. Importers of these goods must file an application with the Ministry of Commerce not later than the third working day of each month and pay a flat-rate nonrefundable fee of 10 percent of the value of the application. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution month. The foreign exchange authorizations may be accumulated for a period of one year from the date of issue. On the basis of the foreign exchange authorized, importers are granted import licenses which are valid for one year from the date of issue. There are two exceptions to the system described above. First, for imports financed directly by foreign loans, applications for licenses are approved up to the full amount of the financing available and the license fee of 10 percent is applied on the amount of the license issued. Second, exporters of goods and services—other than exporters of coffee, vanilla, cloves, and sugar —may benefit from a special import regime. Enterprises whose exports of goods and services exceed 50 percent of their turnover are authorized to import their total requirements of raw materials, spare parts, and small equipment goods without paying the 10 percent fee. Enterprises whose exports are less than 50 percent of their turnover are authorized to import their inputs without paying the 10 percent fee only to the extent that they are used for the production destined for export and are imported under the temporary admission regime; imports of inputs not entering into exports do not benefit from this special system and are treated on an equal footing with all the imports under the ordinary system. The special system for exporting enterprises is implemented for a transitional period and is subject to a global ceiling of SDR 25 million in 1987, regardless of the sources of financing. Once this allocation is exhausted, exporting enterprises must use the ordinary system to import their inputs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which has delegated approval authority to the Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly docu- men ted. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 100,000 a person a year (FMG 50,000 for children under 10 years). Any foreign exchange remaining after re turn to Mada- gascar must be surrendered. For business travel, foreign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of a FMG 300,000 a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Applications for additional foreign exchange may be approved for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 percent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident MADAGASCAR physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons whose families are in Madagascar, and up to 45 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar (100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 330,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, vanilla, and sugar, all exports may be made freely. However, the exporting enterprises must obtain an exporter's card (carte d'exportateur) issued by the Ministry of Commerce and file an export declaration with this Ministry. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination, unless the Directorate of the Treasury (Exchange Control Office) waives this require- ment. All commercial export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repa- triated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Madagascar3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economy (the Directorate of the Treasury). Malagasy direct Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR investments abroad4 are prohibited without special au- thorization from the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The total or partial liquidation of such inves tmen ts must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Both the making and the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts, whether these are Malagasy inves tmen ts abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. In accordance with the Investment Code of June 18, 1985 (Law No. 85-001), foreign or domestic enterprises of special importance to the economy may be granted preferred status arrangements. Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import duties, income taxes, import licenses, and other financial and economic benefits. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and numismatic items up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate for the Malagasy franc was adjusted on several occasions during the year, from FMG 635.79 - US$1 at the end of 1985 to FMG 773.05 = US$1 at the end of 1986, involving a depreciation of 18 percent. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. 328 Imports and Import Payments August 4. Interministerial Order No. 3382/86 provided that industrial enterprises whose exports exceeded 50 percent of their turnover were authorized to import their total requirements of spare parts and small equipment goods, while industrial enterprises whose exports were less than 50 percent of their turnover were authorized to import these goods only to the extent that they were used for the production destined for export. Such imports would be made within the limits established under the annual import program. In order to ensure that the corresponding foreign exchange would become available at the time the import license was issued, the Central Bank would set aside a portion of foreign exchange receipts from exports by these enterprises. Enterprises eligible to benefit from this special import system could no longer retain specified percentages of their export proceeds in special accounts (called EPI accounts) and use them to import essential inputs. December 24. Interministerial Order No. 5618/86 and implementing regulations were announced, introducing a new import regime with effect from January 2, 1987. Under the new regime, monthly foreign exchange allo- cations would be set aside for imports of spare parts, raw materials, small equipment goods, and nonfood consumer goods. Importers of these goods must file an application with the Ministry of Commerce, and a flat-rate nonre- fundable fee of 10 percent of the amount of each appli- cation would be levied at the time of the filing of the application. In the event that the total amount of appli- cations exceed the total amount of foreign exchange allocated, the amounts applied for would be reduced proportionately, and on a non-discriminatory basis, to the overall monthly allocation. Enterprises exporting goods and services —other than exporters of coffee, va- nilla, cloves, and sugar —would be exempted from pay- ment of the 10 percent fee; in the case of enterprises whose exports exceed 50 percent of their turnover, the exemption would apply to their total requirements for these inputs, while for enterprises whose exports are less than 50 percent of their turnover, the exemption would apply only to inputs used for the production that was destined for export. Exports and Export Proceeds August 29. Ministry of Commerce Notice No. 394 provided significant simplifications of the regulations governing exports of most nontraditional products. Ex- porters' cards, which entitle individuals and enterprises to engage in export activity, were to be issued freely, within a period not exceeding one month from the date of receipt of the application, to any individual and enter- prise with satisfactory taxpayer and legal records and in compliance with prevailing foreign exchange regulations. The system of "trial" periods for exporters and the requirement that the value of exports reach a minimum amount was eliminated. In addition, the requirement of prior export authorization was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geograph- ical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign exchange transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi is determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the exchange rate of the U .S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On December 31, 1986 the Reserve Bank 's buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were MK 1.9474 and MK 1.9623, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the International Monetary Fund. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade, Indus t ry, and Tourism, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other coun- tries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized paymen ts in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other non- resident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for pay- ments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any coun try other than 'Under Malawi's exchange control regu la t ions, all currenc ies o ther than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior authorization of the exchange control authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the inves tment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. On application to the exchange control authorities, the interest on Blocked Account balances is normally trans- ferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The allocation of foreign exchange for imports is based on an annual foreign exchange budge t. For a number of items2 import licenses are required regardless of the coun try of origin. All other goods3 may be imported under an open general license when originating in Common- wealth countries or in non-Commonwea l th countries that are members of the GATT. For other countries an import license is required for all commodities except certain items that are free from licensing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, samples, and advertising materials. Import licenses are usually issued w i th in a week of application. Af ter having obtained a license, importers must submit an application for foreign exchange to a commercial bank prior to ordering goods. Applications must be accom- panied by pro forma invoices. In principle, commercial banks are authorized to approve foreign exchange up to MK 100 w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank; however, as a ma t ter of practice, commercial banks refer all foreign exchange applications to the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank allocates foreign exchange according to guidelines regarding the priority of imports and with reference to a foreign exchange budget. Essential goods such as raw materials, spare parts, petroleum products, mach ine ry, chemicals ( inc lud ing Pharmaceuticals and fer- tilizers), and certain basic foods tuffs are given high priority. Nonessential items, such as luxu ry consumer items and goods for which import substitutes are available, are given low priority. This application process normally takes about one mon th. When approved goods arrive in the coun try and pay- men ts are due, the importer must make a fu r ther appli- cation for foreign currency paymen ts. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant customs documents. Commercial banks may require counterpart deposits de- pending on means of payment (e .g ., letter of credit); but this is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations. The Reserve Bank authorizes 2Certain ag r icu l tu ral and food p roduc ts, new (m i l i ta ry type) and used c lo th ing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cemen t, fer t i l izers, newsprint and certain paper produc ts, penc i ls, ba l l-po int pens, office stapling machines and staples, p r in t ing ink s, erasers, hand-operated numbe r ing s tamps, f l ick kn iv e s, exp los ives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, mist ne ts, wild an ima ls, live fish, cassava, and copyr ight articles. 3A l icens ing sys tem based on ta r i ff quo tas and l inked to purchases of domestic subs t i tu tes is applied to impor ts of clothing items under two tariff headings. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI payment after ascertaining the bona fides of the exchange application. The normal period needed to complete the administrative procedures is about one mon th. Any prepayment for imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Pay- ments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Duty payable on imports is calculated based on a composite rate which consists of import levy (fixed at 5 percent), surtax (up to 30 percent), and customs duty (up to 45 percent), de- pending on the tariff classification of imports. The com- posite rate is 80.5 percent on average. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports requires prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. For other purposes such as traveling abroad, foreign exchange is provided up to certain limits by authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year. For children up to 10 years of age, the basic exchange allowance is MK 200; for children over 10 years up to 18 years, the allowance is MK 300 a year. Annual allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and family remit- tances. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations must be referred to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and £ 10 or US$15 in bank notes, or the equivalent of £ 10 or US$15 in any other convertible currency notes, in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are not allowed, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of do- mestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy mate- rials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 330 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to non- resident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for ap- proval: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange equivalent up to MK 15,000, whether single or married; (2) married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family; (3) unmarried persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure; (4) the balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of the departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emigration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Indus try in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement August 16. The kwacha was depreciated by 10 percent against the currency basket, resulting in a change in the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar from MK 1.8045 to MK 2.0031 per US$1. MALAWI Exports and Export Proceeds , „ , t , , APril 3' The 10 Percent exP°rt levy on tea and tobacco was removed. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is deter- mined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes only to moderate volatile daily fluctuations in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 31, 1986 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was M$2.6015 - US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies, to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than Israeli and South African currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Govern- ment, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Fi- nance. The day-to-day administration of import licensing throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account or in any currency other than Israeli and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained according to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as External Accounts. There 332 are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely per- mitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$10,000. The proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$l0,000, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks. Balances in External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli Accounts and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, import licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries. These restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of all goods origi- nating from the People's Republic of China are also subject to an import license. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to an import license w i th quan t i ta t ive restrictions (quota). Movemen ts of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of meat, bones, hides, sk in, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion thereof from India require an import license. Imports of primates require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued under M$ 10,000 from any coun try other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control re- quirements have been met. Payments in excess of M$ 10,000 require completion of forms and approval by any autho- rized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufacturing sector are eligible for preferential duty treatment as follows: (1) raw materials not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of import duty of 2 percent; (2) industries can be fur ther exempted from this 2 percent import duty if they comply with the New Economic Policy in terms of equity participation, management, and em- ployment structure; (3) in the case of companies manu- facturing finished products for the export market, full exemption from import du ty is granted when local ma- terials are competitive in price and quan t i ty; (4) all customs duties and sales tax on imported mach inery and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equ ipment that are unavailable locally and used directly in the manufacturing process can be considered for ex- emption; and (5) import du ty drawback can be claimed by any manufac turer, provided that evidence of export per- formance and importation of raw materials is subm i t ted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide invest- ments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$ 10,000. There is no restriction on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally prohib- ited. Exports of sawlogs above 40 centimeters in diameter from Peninsular Malaysia are prohibited. For sawlogs of 40 centimeters and below in diameter, only those species other than the 27 banned species are allowed to be exported. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f .o .b. or more (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of tiles, bricks, metals of all kinds ex- cluding iron and steel, rice and paddy in whatever form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to licensing. Export incentives are provided to companies exporting Malaysian products. The main incentives include abate- ment of adjusted income for manufactured exports, an export allowance for agricultural products, deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, accelerated depreciation allowances for resident companies, and ex- port credit financing. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate ex- change receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limitation is imposed on the import of currency notes by travelers. MALAYSIA Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. Foreign firms engaged in export-oriented projects, in- cluding those involving the exploitation or extraction of nonrenewable resources, are allowed to hold equity of up to 100 percent. Majority foreign ownership is also allowed, depending on such factors as the level of tech- nology, spin-off effects, size of investments, location, value added, and the utilization of local raw materials and components. However, according to the new foreign equity guideline announced in October 1986, foreign investors whose applications are received during the period October 1, 1986-December 31, 1990 are also permitted to hold equity of up to 100 percent, provided the following conditions are met: (1) the company exports more than 50 percent of its production or sells more than 50 percent of its production to companies in the Free Trade Zone and Licensed Manufacturing Warehouses or employs more than 350 full-time Malaysian workers; and (2) the company's products do not compete w i th products presently being manufactured locally for the domestic market. The maximum equity stake in a bank or finance company is limited to 20 percent for a corporation and 10 percent for an individual, including family-owned companies. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$l0,000. Companies in Ma- laysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio invest- ment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and South Africa. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Residents may borrow freely from abroad sums which are individually less than M$ 100,000; beyond that amount, permission must be obtained from the Controller, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds would be used. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided these payments are in accordance with the approved terms and conditions. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign currency by banks in Malaysia must be for business and productive purposes in Malaysia, including (but not exclusively) payment for the import of goods and services, payment of interest or repayment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payment for the purchase from nonresidents of immovable 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares. In addition, for the purchase of property or shares (1) the Foreign Investment Committee must give its approval; (2) the amount borrowed must not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million; and (3) repayment of principal cannot be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from residents. The ap- proval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonres- idents by the commercial banks is exempted from payment of the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the export of Malaysian goods and proceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies outside Malaysia, provided monthly returns are submitted to the Controller. In addition, companies located in free trade zones, or those that are licensed warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be allowed to offset their export proceeds through intercompany ac- counts against payables to their affiliated or parent com- panies overseas for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are permitted to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export gold, provided that the weight of individual bars and wafers does not exceed 100 grams in each case. Travelers may import, on their own person or in personal luggage, any number of gold coins issued by the Central Bank of Malaysia but only one piece of any other type of gold coin, medallion, bar, or wafer not exceeding 100 grams in weight. The importation of gold is otherwise regulated by an import license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, with due reference to the Central Bank's policy to limit such importation to authorized dealers who are required to quote daily buying and selling prices for the wafers that they retail to the public. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 27. Import duties on travel posters, brochures, leaflets, and other printed materials were abolished in line with the International Florence Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds June 27. Export license requirements for cement, iron and steel, sugar, flour, diesel, premium petroleum, liq- uefied petroleum gas, kerosene, and fertilizer were abolished. May 7. The Promotion of Investments Act of 1986 was passed by Parliament. In order to further encourage private sector investments, especially in export-oriented industries, the Promotion of Investments Act was amended on December 31, 1986 as follows. (1) Export incentives 334 based on value added were abolished and were replaced by export incentives based on value of exports only. A provision was made for an abatement of adjusted income of up to 50 percent based on the export performance of the company in relation to its total sales. (2) A 5 percent abatement of adjusted income for companies using Ma- laysian materials was abolished. (3) A 5 percent abatement of adjusted income for companies using indigenous Ma- laysian materials was retained. (4) An export allowance of 5 percent (based on the f.o.b. value) was given to trading companies that export manufactured products. Capital October 1. New guidelines for foreign equity were announced. These guidelines are applicable to new foreign investments in industries whose products will not compete with products presently being manufactured locally for the domestic market, and to the expansion of foreign- owned or partly foreign-owned industries which do not compete against existing local industries. These rules apply only to new foreign inves tmen ts during the period October 1, 1986-December 1990; such investments will not be required to restructure their equity at any time. The new guidelines are: (1) a company that exports 50 percent or more of its production is permitted to have up to 100 percent foreign equity; (2) a company that sells 50 percent or more of its production to companies in the Free Trade Zone or Licensed Manufacturing Warehouse is permitted to have up to 100 percent foreign equ i ty; (3) a company that employs 350 or more full-time Malaysian workers is permitted to have up to 100 percent foreign equity; and (4) where foreign equity is less than 100 percent, the balance of the equity is allocated according to the principle of who is the initiator of the projects. However, these rules will be applied without undue rigidity. October 24. An amendment to the Promotion of In- vestment Act of 1986 specified that: (1) the 5 percent abatement of adjusted income for small-scale manufac- turing companies that comply with the government policy on capital participation in industry was replaced with a 5 percent abatement of adjusted income for all resident manufacturing companies that comply with the govern- ment policy on capital participation on or after Janu- ary 1, 1986; (2) the abatement of adjusted income based on value added of products exported and the value of Malaysian materials incorporated in the manufacture of the exports was replaced with an abatement of adjusted income up to a maximum of 50 percent based on export sales in relation to total sales; (3) the tax relief period (pioneer status) may be extended for another five years for certain selected promoted products/activities as pre- scribed in a statutory order; and (4) the export allowance of 5 percent was extended to trading companies that export any Malaysian manufactured products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. The official exchange rate of the rufiyaa is set by the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The midpoint ex- change rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 was Rf 7.2443 = US$1.1 Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regu- lations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since January 25, 1982 all local transactions between residents and nonresidents, such as the settlement of tourism bills, must be made in local currency. There are no restrictions on maintaining balances in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Import licenses are issued to importers who possessed import licenses on the basis of the value of their imports in 1985.2 Additional import licenses are issued to these importers or newcomers if they earn foreign exchange by exporting goods or services or if imports are needed for projects that generate foreign exchange; for those not directly earning foreign exchange, import licenses are granted if there is assurance that foreign exchange fi- nancing of imports will be provided by the banking system.3 Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, sugar), medicines, and part of the coun try's re- quirement of petroleum products are imported by the State Trading Organization. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports and range from 5 percent to 200 percent. •With effect from March 1, 1987, the basket-pegging arrangement was discontinued, and the rufiyaa was allowed to float freely. The exchange rates are to be published by the MMA from t ime to t ime, and the buy ing and selling rates pub l ished on March 1, 1987 were Rf 10.00 and Rf 10.20, respec t ive ly, per US$1. 2Since January 1, 1987 the licenses are also issued to those who engaged in import business prior to 1985. 3On March 1, 1987 the requ irement that import license applicants mu st be involved with industries that generate foreign exchange, or must provide assurance of foreign exchange f inanc ing from the bank ing sys tem, was abolished. Payments for Invisibles Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency without any restriction. Tourist resorts and foreigners other than those working for the Govern- ment are required, when paying their taxes and rents, to produce documentary evidence showing that their sales of foreign exchange to the MMA are at least sufficient to cover such paymen ts. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations are conducted only after being reg- istered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Indus- tries. Export of black coral and tortoise shells is prohib- ited, except in the form of a product. Export du ty is levied on ambergris exported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldivian jointly with a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, within the period of time specified in the license. In the case of duty-free exports, exporters may, at the request of the Government, be required to import specified goods in an amount not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods exported; this requirement has, however, not been applied so far. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign investors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment either in the form of cash or in capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted, and exemptions from taxes other than tourism taxes may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 1. A new import licensing system was intro- duced. Importers who possessed import licenses in 1985 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES would be granted licenses in 1986 on the basis of the value of their 1985 imports. For those requesting increases in their value limits or seeking import licenses for the first time, their applications would be approved if one of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) the applicant earns foreign exchange by exporting goods or services; and (2) imports are needed for projects that generate foreign exchange. For those not directly earning foreign exchange, applications would be approved if there is assurance that the necessary foreign exchange financ- ing of such imports would be provided by the banking system. April 1. A new tariff schedule was adopted, under which duties ranging from 5 percent to 200 percent would be levied on the c.i.f. value of imports. Medicines and textbooks prescribed by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, respectively, were exempted from duties. Goods imported by the Government for its own use and the diplomatic corps and personal imports up to a certain value limit were also exempted from duties. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. The BCEAO levies commissions of 0.1 per mill and 2.5 per mill, respectively, on transfers to or from nonmembers of the West African Monetary Union. The banks also charge a separate commission, a portion of which is transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to the repatri- ation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Ca- meroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole au- thority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreement accounts2 are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made !The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Mali maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Re- public of China, Hungary, Morocco, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. With the exception of those with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R., these agreements are inoperative. through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by foreign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs opened by these correspondents with an au- thorized bank in Mali. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited without prior authorization with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 estab- lish three categories of imports: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certificate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Regime B); and (3) imports subject to special prohibitions for reasons of security, public health, etc. (Regime C). Imports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Community are subject to Regime A; some products from EC countries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities, are also included in Regime A. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, are subject to quotas under Regime B, as are all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, from grants, foreign inves tmen t, or development loans, are admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Imports from Israel, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. A license is valid for six months but, if necessary, may be extended for a fur ther period of three months. However, the system is implemented flexibly, and licenses in excess of the program are issued for justified need or unforeseen circumstances. Imports may be made by either private importers or state enterprises, among the most important of which is the Societe Mal- ienne d'Import-Export (SOMIEX). An allocation commis- sion establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a person (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which may be allotted on several occasions during the year; any unused foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary within eight days after the return to Mali. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 a trip.3 Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account, must be repatriated and surrendered within one month of payment due date or within 90 days from shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate. The exportation of cereals is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to 3Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie} issued by the Security Services. 338 the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries'for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restric- tions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under an Investment Code of January 24, 1986, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal be- longings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to customs dec- laration as prescribed by the customs regulations. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments February 13. Decree No. 33/PGRM was issued, sim- plifying and reducing the import licensing system. October 24. Circular Letter No. 386-MFC-DNAE was issued, suspending the issue of all import certificates for rice, millet, and maize. Exports and Export Proceeds February 13. Only certificates were required for all exports. November 18. Decree No. 371/PGRM was issued, prohibiting exportation of cereals. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira. The value of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Maltese lira and a trade-weigh ted basket of currencies1 representing Malta's important trad- ing partners. The daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is derived by adding up the latest dollar values of the currency components of the Maltese lira basket; the midday quotations in Hong Kong are normally used in the computations. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied between the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar in such dealings were US$2.7010 and US$2.6976, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1986 was £ stg. 1.8385 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in Hong Kong. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade and Economic Planning. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which also may give or renew guarantees for any purpose, provided they hold full cash cover in Maltese liri or foreign currency for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an External Account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are maintained with a number of countries to promote exports of Maltese goods in return for the importation of specified goods from the respective partner countries.3 Outstanding bal- 'Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2Foreign currencies are denned as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 3As of December 31, 1986, Malta maintained bilateral payments agree- ments with Bulgaria, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, and Turkey. ances under these agreements can be settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Maltese liri, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to nonresi- dents, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (includ- ing bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and maintain For- eign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign cur- rency account belonging to a nonresident, and with interest payable on Foreign Currency Accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Ac- counts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain Foreign Currency Accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities are, in principle, subject to either state-trading or licensing requirements. Imports from Japan are banned, with the exception of certain industrial supplies, spare parts for products already in Malta, and imports for which the importer can show evidence of offsetting exports. The importation, in finished form, of certain goods that can be produced domestically is restricted; this restriction covers more than 60 different products, mostly leather goods, textile goods, and meat products. Certain imports are subject to state trading. These include commodities regarded as essential, such as tinned milk, butter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, rice, sugar, tinned meat and fish, cheese, coffee, tea, fru i t, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and the related import license, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control ap- proval, residents may keep Foreign Currency Accounts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities, but approval authority for most types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. In any calendar year each person is entitled to a travel allowance of Lm 500 for one trip and Lm 250 for additional trips, subject to a limit of five trips. The allowances are for trips of at least six nights' duration; otherwise they are reduced pro rata. Persons traveling abroad and returning within the same day are allowed not more than Lm 30, subject to not more than three trips in addition to the five trips referred to above. Business travelers are allowed an exchange allocation equivalent to Lm 100 a day per person, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip and one such trip every 30 days. Frequent business travelers may obtain a blanket six- month authorization with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon exhaustion of the funds au- thorized. Expenses (other than air or sea fares) defrayed in advance in Malta in connection with ovrseas trips are counted as part of the foreign exchange allowance. Re- quests beyond the specified limits require the exceptional consideration of the Central Bank. The allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equivalent of Lm 3,000 a person for an academic year.4 Applications for allow- ances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to the customs on entry. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank per- mission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted only with insurance com- panies that are duly licensed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the main- tenance of dependents abroad are allowed on application showing evidence of hardship. Up to Lm 25 in Maltese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to EC countries, Norway, and Sweden are subject to license. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in 4For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and s tudy, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. 340 foreign currency notes, but, without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by non- residents,5 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Applications for the acquisition of property for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 7,500 for each family; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acqui- sition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coin, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry, but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tender. The import of gold coin is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bullion, and manufactured or semi- manufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion only to supply jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import du ty. Changes During 1986 Payments for Invisibles February 11. The daily exchange allowance for business travel was increased from Lm 70 to Lm 100, subject to 5For the purpose of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, or (c) 20 percent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip per month; the exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased from Lm 250 per trip every 60 days to Lm 500 for one trip and Lm 250 for additional trips, subject to a limit of five trips a year. MALTA 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' relative importance in Mauritania's total ex- change transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are used for determining the ouguiya's daily exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 14 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the mid- point exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 74.43 = US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied in respect of purchase and sale transactions through commercial bank accounts, and commissions of 1.25 percent are applied in respect of purchase and sale transactions involving trav- eler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that have been approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 342 only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts and be credited with 15 percent of repatriated export proceeds in the case of exporters' convertible accounts; and Internal Nonres- ident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic bank notes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment without central bank approval, but in the case of exporters' convertible accounts, payments from the accounts may be made only in respect of expenses relating to exporters' production activities. Payments and withdrawals from Convertible Accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. Imports of all commodities must be authorized by the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. Although there is no formal import program, an annual import program is established on the basis of projected foreign exchange receipts, and import author- ization is granted within the framework of this program. Import transactions must be domiciled with an author- ized bank, except in the case of imports "without pay- ment." Af ter the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already arrived. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company (SMAR). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equiv- alent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other desti- nations; annual limits range from UM 100,000 to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UM 800,000, depending on the applicant's business turn- over. Bona fide requests for higher amounts for travel may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and en- dorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be more than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company (SNIM), and exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company (SMCP). A special repatriation requirement applies to the export proceeds of SNIM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within four months of the due date of the paymen t. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to ex- change control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the sub- sequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior au- thorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct invest- MAURITANIA ments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days from receipt of the declaration. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of inves tmen ts, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and divi- dends accruing from such inves tment can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement During the year, the external value of the ouguiya was adjusted on several occasions against the basket of cur- rencies used for determining its exchange rate, resulting in a rate in terms of the U.S. dollar of UM 74.43 = US$1 on December 31, 1986. Including those made by companies in Maur i tan ia that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Maur i tan ia. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Maur- itius' major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (central bank) with asymmetrical margins, amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.1875 percent (buy ing) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in French francs, us ing rates obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius were Mau Rs 19.24 and Mau Rs 19.31, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 13.12 and Mau Rs 13.17, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 2.03 and Mau Rs 2.04, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in the French franc, pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. Spreads allowed between buy ing and selling rates of the commercial banks for transactions by tele- graphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in the pound sterling, 1.25 percent for the U.S. dollar, 1.6 percent for the French franc, 2.25 percent for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, and 2.375 percent for the deutsche mark. Commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling, French francs, and U .S. dollars are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the Export Pro- cessing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a un iform margin of 3 percent per annum. A stamp duty of 45 percent is applied to authorized outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds and repa- triation of approved foreign investments) and purchases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Maur i t ius, are authorized to approve and effect paymen ts for current transactions up to prescribed limits. Trans- actions in excess of authorized limits must be referred to the Bank of Mauritius for prior approval. The Ministry 'The exchange con trol regu la t ions of Mau r i t ius de f ine foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mau r i t ian rupee. 344 of Trade and Shipping is responsible for the issuance of import and export permits, where required. Prescription of Currency Beginning in 1985, Mauritius no longer makes a dis- tinction between sterling and nonsterling areas for pre- scription of currency purposes. Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, paymen ts from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Madagascar. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers from other external accounts, and (3) the pro- ceeds of sales to an authorized dealer of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited with (1) any payment to residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The "Nonresident (External Account) Scheme," reintroduced on September 25, 1985, is intended to provide Mauritians abroad w i th incentives to transfer their savings to Maur i t ius and to open accounts with commercial banks in Maur i t ius in rupees in the form of savings or fixed deposit accounts and in designated foreign currencies in the form of term deposits with a m in imum period of one year. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free to transfer at any time balances held therein, together with interest. Any related exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies is borne by the Bank of Mauritius. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Ac- counts to wh ich are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from in- ves tmen ts made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been spe- cifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such inves tmen ts, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Accoun t. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordi- nance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regula- tions of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prohibited, as specified in the th ird and fou r th schedules, respectively, require import permits from the M in is try of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax purposes. Commercial banks are au- thorized to approve and transfer funds for import pay- ments up to an amount not exceeding Mau Rs 200,000. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges; a stamp du ty of 17 percent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Local commercial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of goods of lower priority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports exceeding Mau Rs 200,000 per transaction require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange for other purposes, such as foreign travel and g i f ts, may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authori- ties. The basic personal travel allowance is the equivalent of £ stg. 1,200 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any coun try. A 10 percent tax, together with a surcharge of 10 percent thereon, is levied on all air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents for international travel. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a day plus £ stg. 20 per day for entertain- ment expenses. There are established limits for paymen ts and transfers in respect of family support, salary remit- tances by non-Mauritian nationals, gifts, trade commis- sions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, profes- sional and technical services, education, and leave sala- ries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semipre- cious stones, pearls, and articles mounted w i th these; and (3) works of art are prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secretary. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require an export permit from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Exports of certain foods tuffs, including f ru i t s, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A graduated tax is levied on sugar exports at the rate of 15.75 percent of f.o.b. value for export volume w i th in the range of 1,001-3,000 tons, and 23.625 percent for exports exceeding 3,000 tons. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be repatriated within six mon ths after sh ipmen ts, and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be MAURITIUS given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet paymen ts for imports. Exports of kn it shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made f ibers to Canada and the United States are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by t rave le rs. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permis- sion, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 45 percent stamp du ty. Nonres- idents also requ ire permission to transfer capital to any country; such transfers are subject to a 35 percent stamp duty. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin. Proceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. However, permission for repatriation of capital is normally given for capital brought in on or after April 5, 1966. Repatriation of capital by foreign investors is tax free up to the amount of original invest- men t, but capital gains are taxed at 35 percent. Emigrants may take ou t, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp du ty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any coun try; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 45 percent stamp du ty. Persons emigrating from Maur i t ius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (in- cluding commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewe lry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Paymen ts in respect of private imports of gold coin and gold bullion are subject 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS to the 45 percent stamp du ty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 22. The Bank of Mauritius began to provide forward exchange facilities in French francs. The margins quoted by the Bank of Mauritius in respect of exchange transactions in French francs were narrowed, and spreads allowed between buying and selling rates of the commer- cial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers were narrowed. Prescription of Currency April 1. A bilateral payments agreement between Maur- itius and Madagascar entered into force. Imports and Import Payments December 22. The commercial banks were authorized to approve and transfer funds for import payments up to an amount not exceeding Mau Rs 200,000 without prior approval of the Bank of Mauritius. Payments for Invisibles December 22. The following changes were introduced: (1) the limit on remittances for gift purposes was increased from Mau Rs 500 to Mau Rs 1,000; (2) the basic personal travel allowance was increased from the equivalent of £ stg. 600 per person for every two calendar years to £ stg. 1,200 per person for every two years; and (3) the limit on entertainment expenses relating to business travel was increased from £ stg. 100 per week to £ stg. 20 per day. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. There are two exchange markets: the controlled market and the free market. The exchange rate in the controlled market is adjusted daily on the basis, inter alia, of the following factors: (1) the demand and supply of foreign exchange in the controlled market; (2) the objective regarding an adequate level of international reserves; (3) the movement of domestic and foreign prices; and (4) movements in other exchange rate relationships. Transactions at the controlled market rate include (1) merchandise export receipts (with some exceptions); (2) payments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, leasings or ren ts, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than fixed assets; (3) royalties for the use of foreign technologies and patents; (4) payments of principal, interest, and related expenses resulting from financial and suppliers' credits by the public and private sector; (5) payments for imports; (6) expenses in relation to the Mexican foreign service and contributions regarding Mexico's membership in international organizations; and (7) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Eligible participants in the controlled market may choose to complete the transaction at a retail rate, agreed between participants and the banks, or at the "equilibrium exchange rate," which is determined for the controlled market each day at a fixing session (in the Bank of Mexico) in which representatives of the major banks exchange bids for purchases and sales of foreign exchange; the Bank of Mexico also may submit bids in these sessions. For amounts exceeding US$50,000, transactors may make completion of the deal contingent on the equilibrium exchange rate achieving a particular m in imum or maxi- mum value. On December 31, 1986 the equilibrium ex- change rate in the controlled market for the U.S. dollar was Mex$923.0 per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the same market were Mex$920.7 and Mex$925.3 per US$1, respectively. Within the free market, no limitations apply to the access to, ownership, or transfer of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were Mex$908 and Mex$921 per US$1, respectively. The Bank of Mexico provides, through the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FICORCA), foreign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted or resched- uled on a long-term basis with foreign financial entities and suppliers. All Mexican credit institutions are authorized to operate in the free market through exchange houses. Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to a Mexican bank for the purpose of a borrowing operation, or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of International Operations in the Bank of Mexico. Financial institutions located in the areas bor- dering the United States are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Mexican residents. On November 12, 1946 Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by SHCP and the Bank of Mexico. The exchange control system is administered by the Bank of Mexico through Mexican credit institutions, which carry out most of the transac- tions in the controlled market. Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below, there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to nonresidents, neither in the free nor in the controlled market, but obligations deriving from the selling of foreign exchange in the controlled market must be made in the currencies approved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance with the payments agreements with Ar- gentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Ven- ezuela, controlled market payments to these countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar arrangements exist with Costa Rica, Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments In line with the program to replace import licenses and permits with tariffs, import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion are required for only 638 of the 8,048 items in Mexico's General Import Tariff. The exceptions include temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export production. For the items subject to licensing, applications for import licenses may cover the applicant's import needs of six months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities "open- end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 percent and 17 percent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the National Bank for Foreign Trade (BANCOMEXT) for the promotion of exports. Official min- imum prices are applied to import items in 960 tariff headings representing 7.6 percent of imports in 1986. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. Imports by public entities and governmental agencies are subject to prior approval by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI). Beginning from July 25, 1985, a new import tariff structure is applied, grouping merchandise into seven ad valorem rates ranging from zero to 45 percent. Imports from member states of LAIA are subject to preferential tariffs. A free zone regime is granted for certain regions until June 30, 1991; such a regime allows imports to these said zones without duties, as long as the goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Importers may acquire foreign exchange for the full value of merchandise already imported and for which payment has not yet been made. Importers must register a commitment of use (or devolution) of foreign exchange (CUDD), in effect since April 1984, in order to obtain foreign currency for advance payments; they have a period of 180 days to show evidence of use of the foreign exchange for payment of imports and associated expenses or to return the foreign exchange if no adequate substan- tiation of its use is provided. Beginning from August 6, 1985, advance payment for imports is restricted to 20 percent of the value of tools, machinery, and equipment destined to be added to the capital assets of the importing company; supplier's confirmation is required for opera- tions in excess of US$10,000 in value. Beginning from October 9, 1985, advance full payment for all imports is allowed if the value of goods does not exceed US$10,000, or if payment is made through letters of credit; in the latter case, there is a 60-day period in which to show evidence of use of foreign exchange. For an import value exceeding US$10,000, only 50 percent advance payment is permitted. Advance payment for associated expenses is permitted up to maximum authorized percentages (6 percent f.o.b. value for North American imports, and 8 percent f.o.b. value for other regions). Supplier's confir- mation is required for individual transactions exceeding US$10,000. Beginning September 5, 1986, exporters are allowed to retain foreign exchange proceeds up to 100 percent of their requirements for advanced payments of imported inputs. These facilities are also extended to the imported inputs of their domestic suppliers. Payments for Invisibles Except for the items specified below, payments for invisibles are made through the free exchange market. The payments made through the controlled exchange market consist of: (1) principal and interest payments on 348 public and private sector debt with foreign financial entities, foreign suppliers, and Mexican banks; (2) fees related to credits from foreign financial entities, up to 3A of 1 percent of the total amount of each credit; (3) expenses of the Mexican foreign service, contributions, and allotments for Mexico's membership in international organizations; (4) expenses related to foreign trade; (5) royalties and obligations deriving from juridical acts in force as of June 1, 1984 and recorded with the National Registry of Technological Transfer, with payments to be made through authorized Mexican banks; and (6) expenses on account of scholarships granted by the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) and those approved by CONACYT or the Bank of Mexico, for studies in foreign countries. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico, or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies, except when Mexican firms deem it convenient not to execute such transactions, in which case the prior au- thorization of SHCP is required. The provisions are not applicable to reinsurance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exportation of a few specified items is prohibited. All merchandise export receipts in excess of Mex$ 1,000 a week are sub ject to surrender requirements in the controlled market, w i th in a standard period of 90 days. Handicraft exports of up to US$8,000 per operation are exempt from the surrender requ iremen t. Special procedures apply for the surrender of export proceeds beyond the standard limit of 90 days. Beginning September 5, 1986, if a sale of foreign exchange occurs beyond the required period w i thout authorization, the applicable exchange rate is only a certain percentage of the rate of the selling day, which varies according to the delay in surrendering the foreign exchange. Exporters of jewe lry and precious metals must surrender the ir pro- ceeds through specifically authorized credit ins t i tu t ions. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open in Mexican banks special accounts in foreign currency; but only proceeds from exports can be deposited in such accounts. Interest payable on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rates. Mexican banks are also authorized to accept de- posits in U.S. dollars by Mexican firms and grant loans in foreign currency for the production, shipment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits can only be constituted in U.S. dollars and do not earn an interest rate higher than LIBOR plus 1 percent. Individual deposit accounts under this scheme must be for a minimum of US$5,000, with the exception of deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. Payments are made abroad in foreign currency. Beginning from April 8, 1985, under the Program for Integral Promotion of Exports (PROFIEX), a drawback ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution system of import duty payments by exporters is in operation. With effect from June 6, 1985, the Federal Government provides a facility called "Certificates of the Right to Import Merchandise for Export" (DIMEX), through which exporters with at least 30 percent value added may import, without permit or license requirement, up to 30 percent of the value of their exports; excluded from the scheme are 537 items of the General Import Tariff, representing 21 percent of total imports. Exporters are also eligible to purchase imported inputs at the controlled market rate, as are importers. In addition, they may use their export proceeds to pay for imports, associated expenses, and recorded financial and supplier's debt. Under a three-year understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States on April 23, 1985, Mexico has been granted the benefit of the in jury test in countervailing duty investigations, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to sell foreign exchange through the controlled market for the equivalent in Mex- ican pesos of the payment they make for i tems specified in the Exchange Control Decree, including payment of wages, salaries, leasings or ren ts, the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets, local and federal taxes, insurance prem iums, interest and other accessory paymen ts pertaining to financing payable in Mexican pesos, as well as any other operational expen- diture within Mexico. This regime does not apply to foreign exchange earmarked for payment of credits granted to third parties by foreign financial ins t i tu t ions for the construction of buildings, or industrial parks whose use or en joyment has been granted to such in-bond indus tr ies, provided it has been agreed that the amount of the benef i ts from such use or possession be applied to liquidating the aforementioned credits. In-bond industries must sell their foreign exchange no later than the last business day of the month in which such expenditures are made. In addition, they must present to the Bureau of Customs at the SHCP and the Bank of Mexico, within the first 15 business days of each month, information as to the dates and amounts of foreign exchange sold to the country's credit institutions during the month immediately preceding, as well as the amounts of Mexican pesos they disbursed to pay each of the specified items. In-bond industries must effect these foreign exchange transactions through Mexican credit institutions. Capital Foreign investment, including the transfer of funds relating to increment of capital stock as well as payment of dividends, is excluded from the coverage of the controlled foreign-exchange market. Accordingly, such activities are effected through the free market and not MEXICO subject to any restrictions, having only to conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. Loan proceeds repayable abroad in foreign currency and obtained from foreign financial institutions or Mexican credit institutions are channeled through the controlled exchange market, except when said proceeds are used for the servicing of specified long-term external debt or for import payments. The Federal Government has own- ership and control over certain strategic areas such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electrical and nuclear energy, specified mining activities, railroads, mail and banking services, and other activities so stated by Mexican law. In addition, foreign investment is forbidden in the following activities: insur- ance and surety bond companies, investment fund s, stock broker firms, money exchange establishments, radio and television, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified as such by the Federal Government. New direct foreign inv e s tm ent must have a ma jor i ty participation of Mexican capital, except those cases ap- proved by the National Foreign Inve s tment Commission (CN IE ). Direct foreign inves tmen ts in Mexico must be recorded w i th the National Foreign Inve s tment Registry. Applications by foreign ind iv idua ls or enterprises to ac- quire more than 25 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the CN IE. Under resolutions issued by the CN IE in December 1985 to facilitate inf low of foreign inve s tmen t, no prior CN IE authorization is required for 100 percent foreign ownersh ip of inve s tment in in-bond indu s t ry stocks for stock acqui- sition by foreign investors, if as a m in imum, 51 percent of such stocks were foreign owned prior to such inv e s tm en t. Gold Goldsmiths or manufacturers may acquire nonmonetary gold through authorized Mexican credit institutions at the controlled exchange rate for the elaboration of products earmarked for export. There is a value-added tax of 15 percent on sales of nonmonetary gold. Purchases and sales of monetary gold by Mexican credit institutions are exempt from the tax. Monetary gold exports are exempted from foreign exchange surrender requirements, up to a maximum of 200 grams. Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the free-market exchange rate. Changes During 1986 Administration of Control Mexico became a contracting party to the GATT on August 24, 1986. Imports and Import Payments April 30. The maximum import tariff rate was reduced from 50 percent to 45 percent. The tariff rate structure was also modified. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO October 31. Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion for 201 tariff items were eliminated. November 26. An Anti-Dumping Law was adopted. Exports and Export Proceeds September 5. The system of fines applicable to extern- poraneous surrender of foreign exchange was modified. September 5. Exporters were authorized to keep foreign exchange equivalent to 100 percent of the value of prepayment of future imports for their own use or for the use of their domestic suppliers. Capital September 11. Financial institutions located in the areas bordering the United States were authorized to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Buying and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.35535 buying and DH 1.35943 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.6877 buying and DH 8.7357 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buy ing and selling rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, trav- eler's checks, and letters of credit denominated in "con- vertible currencies" (the currencies listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U .A .E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2CFA francs, Finnish markkaa, and Gibraltar pounds. on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bi- lateral payments agreements;3 and (2) all other countries, the "area of convertibility." Certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements with Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in con- vertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco. Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in con- vertible currencies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical foreign nationals, either resident or nonresident. These may be freely credited with book transfers from abroad, with checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, except foreign bank notes, and with foreign currency drawn from the Bank of Morocco following general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to the Bank of Morocco, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are re- served for physical or juridical persons of foreign nation- ality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies, including bank notes.4 They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies. Foreign transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders 3Guinea and Mali; however, these agreements are inoperative. 4Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be credited with dirham proceeds from the surrender of foreign bank notes, upon presentation of the original customs declaration ju s t i fy ing the importation of the foreign exchange surrendered. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO of these accounts may obtain international credit cards with which to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities without retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of secu- rities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange and lacking retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco (subject to a limit of DH 30,000 per Gregorian calendar year for each account regardless of the number of beneficiaries or of journeys made by them to Morocco. However, at the request of the parties concerned, the Exchange Office is prepared to grant higher limits, upon presentation of specific requests giving full details of the nature of the expenditure to be incurred in Morocco). 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and up to DH 30,000 a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate relatives; but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Central Bank of Mauritania; at present, only the account of the Central Bank of Tunisia is operational. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into two categories and applicable to all countries. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB items). To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis;5 but for goods in List B, an 5C . i .f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 352 import certificate (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Cereals, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import comm i tmen t —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make paymen ts upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods can be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter w i th in the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan com- mercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. At the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank, a stamp du ty of DH 50 is levied on import transactions valued at DH 2,000 or more. Most imports from countries in the paymen ts agreement group are made in accordance with quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the ap- proval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial trans- action covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident in- ves tmen ts in Morocco are transferable to the investor's coun try of residence. The transfer of dividends on non- resident-owned shares of Moroccan companies listed on the Casablanca Stock Exchange and having their main office in Morocco is unres tr ic ted; dividend transfer by unlisted companies requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Und is tr ibu ted profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indef in i te ly. Some paymen ts are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to the employee's country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 percent of his mon th ly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee is single or his family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the Ministry of National Education are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days leave taken abroad, 70 percent for 60 days leave, and 105 percent for 70 days leave. For the medical or paramedical professions, the assessment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 percent, according to whether the spouse lives in Morocco) is based on taxable income minus applicable duties and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in indus try, trade, agriculture, and crafts. For retired persons ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 percent) is based on gross pens ions. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allo- cation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equiv- alent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bank notes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requ iremen ts. Foreign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. A special tax of DH 100 a person is levied on Moroccan or foreign residents traveling abroad, with the exception of pilgrims, s tuden ts, emigrant workers, and those trav- eling on official business. For business travel a standard allowance equivalent to DH 750 a day is granted, up to DH 7,500 a person a trip and w i th in an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist indus t ry may obtain up to the equivalent of DH 1,000 a person a day, up to the equivalent of DH 15,000 a trip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 percent of the foreign exchange repatriated during the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for busi- ness travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursu ing higher studies at the first and second level abroad who do not hold scholarships may obtain mon th ly allocations of foreign exchange up to the equivalent of DH 2,400, and doctoral students who do not hold scholarships may obtain up to the equ iva lent of DH 2,700. There is also a quarterly allocation of the equivalent of DH 3,600 as a supplement for scholarship s tuden ts. Students are granted an annual installation allowance fixed at the equivalent of DH 4,000. The export of Moroccan bank notes is proh ib i ted. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time may be granted DH 2,000 in foreign bank notes upon pre- sentation of an emp loyment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made f ree ly, although export licenses are required for a few items. All f ru i t s, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only either directly by the producers or through a state-trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE), which is also in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an under tak ing to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, th is date must not be set more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives MOROCCO the advice of credit in foreign exchange from abroad, foreign exchange is not automatically surrendered to the Bank of Morocco if it represents the proceeds of mobi- lization of foreign exchange claims arising out of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan com- panies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncom- mercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one mon th of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; foreign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 15,000 mus t, however, be declared to the customs au- thorities. Resident travelers also may bring in foreign bank notes in any amoun t, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as compa- nies established in Morocco, are obligated to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires per- mission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of gifts are not normally approved, nor is inves tment by private individuals in foreign secu- rities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to the equivalent of DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Permissible transfers of assets by resident foreigners on final departure are fixed at DH 25,000 for each year of stay, with no upper limit on the amount. In the case of resident foreigners leaving Morocco, Capital Accoun ts and Suspense Accoun ts with a balance not exceeding DH 100,000 on June 30,1986 may be transferred in their en t ire ty, provided that the bank has submitted to the Exchange Office requests for approval accompanied by the necessary information concerning these accounts before June 30, 1987. A new indus tr ial inve s tment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for fu ll foreign ownership of Moroccan companies and an easing of repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign inves tmen t. In addition, an inves tment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors in most areas of the tourist sector; it also provides for fu ll repatriation of tourist-related profits after tax, w i thout any restraint on timing. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include: (1) purchases on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non- Moroccan securities; (2) purchases of Moroccan securities 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or partic- ipation in a Moroccan firm; (3) subscriptions to (2); (4) investments of any k ind, including purchases of busi- nesses or office buildings; (5) lending to residents; (6) payment of local expenses in excess of DH 15,000 during the account holder's stay in Morocco; (7) any paymen ts to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; (8) any payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; (9) gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; (10) subscriptions to capital in- creases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; (11) subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan public en t i ty; (12) custody charges and commissions on securities; and (13) payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, within the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 percent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident and 25 percent of the company's total capital. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. These are 5.5 percent, seven-year bonds and 6 percent, five-year bonds on which interest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferable. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from non- residents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to autho- rization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement October 6. The Finnish markka began to be quoted both for transfer operations and for exchange of bank notes, traveler's checks and letters of credit (Exchange Office Circular No. 1482). 354 Nonresident Accounts June 24. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be credited with the proceeds from the surrender of foreign bank notes, by virtue of a general delegation granted to the banks by the Exchange Office (Exchange Office Circular No. 1474). July 16. Holders of Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may obtain international credit cards from card- issuing companies established in Morocco and approved by the Exchange Office, with which to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad (Exchange Office Circular No. 1476). July 17. The maximum amount with which Capital Accounts and Suspense Accounts may be debited to pay for the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse thereof, or other immediate relatives, was raised from DH 15,000 to DH 30,000 per Gregorian calendar year, irrespective of the number of beneficiaries or of journeys made by them to Morocco. However, at the request of the parties concerned, the Exchange Office will be prepared to grant higher limits, upon presentation of specific requests giving full details of the nature of the expenditure to be incurred in Morocco (Exchange Office Circular No. 1477). August 1. The borrowing rates applicable to sight deposits and time deposits in convertible dirhams may be freely established (Exchange Office Circular No. 1478). Imports and Import Payments February 24. List C, which listed goods that were not allowed to be imported, was abolished (Exchange Office Circular No. 1471). August 7. Imports used for the production of export goods can be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that the Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Payments for Invisibles December 18. Members of the liberal professions and persons engaged in indus t ry, trade, agriculture, and crafts who are resident foreigners may transfer 30 percent or 50 percent of the savings from their net income, with no upper limits on the amount under the same conditions as those applicable to foreign employees of a Moroccan enterprise. The max imum amount transferable to cover the cost of higher education for a child of foreign parents resident in Morocco who is studying abroad was raised from DH 1,200 to DH 2,000 (Exchange Office Circular No. 1485). Proceeds from Invisibles May 19. Nonresident travelers were exempted from the requirement to declare at customs their foreign cur- rency in the form of bank notes when their exchange value is DH 15,000 or less (Exchange Office Circular No. 1472). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital December 18. Capital Accounts and Suspense Accounts with a balance not exceeding DH 100,000 on June 30, 1986 may be transferred in their entirety. The Capital Accounts to be transferred must represent their holders' own funds, exclusive of assets acquired from other persons. MOROCCO The amount that may be transferred by resident for- eigners on final departure was fixed at a single generally applicable figure of DH 25,000 for each year of stay in Morocco, with no upper limit on the amount, replacing the previous brackets that were based on the length of stay (Exchange Office Circular No. 1485). 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plural Meticais), which is pegged to a weighted basket of six currencies that are most representative of the country's external transactions. The exchange rate of the metical in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in the basket. Exchange rates for 20 other currencies1 are also published daily by the Bank of Mozambique. Buying and selling rates are set such that the spread between the buy ing and the selling rate is 2 percent. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers in U.S. dollars were Mt. 39.341 and Mt. 40.132, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the assistance of central and provincial govern- ment agencies, the National Planning Commission pre- pares annually a foreign exchange budget for the following year, as part of the Central State Plan. Imports and exports are authorized by means of licenses, within limits and on the basis of priorities established in the foreign exchange budget. Foreign exchange transactions, includ- ing the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the Bank of Mozambique, which is both the central bank and the only bank with external banking func t ions. Prescription of Currency Mozambique has bilateral payments agreements w i th Tanzania and the German Democratic Republic. Bilateral agreements containing bilateral clearing arrangement fea- tures are maintained w i th Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. Nonresident Accounts Foreigners living in Mozambique can hold foreign exchange accounts in the Bank of Mozambique and national currency accounts in any bank operating in the coun try. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. Persons or businesses residing abroad may request to open nonresident bank accounts for purposes based on legitimate interests they retain in Mozamb ique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the competent authorities. Ex-residents (nationals and foreigners who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank accounts in Mo- zambique, but their use is subject to prior authorization, in accordance with Ministry of Finance regulations; draw- ings may be made by the holders of such accounts for payment of taxes, certain types of debt, maintenance of spouses or relatives, expenses while visiting the country, and other payments. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, within limits es- tablished in the State Central Plan. In accordance with their objective, enterprises authorized to conduct foreign trade can license themselves for transactions within these limits. The license specifies the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the goods and amount and currency of payment. Other enterprises may obtain licenses from the M in is try of Foreign Trade, which considers applications on a case-by-case basis. Imports of raw materials, parts and spare parts, petroleum, food, and medicines are given priority. Un t il May 1984, most imports were undertaken by state-licensed trading enterprises. However, the intro- duction of the new foreign exchange retention scheme has led to a major decentralization of importing activities, particularly imports of intermediate inputs. Individuals may obtain import licenses within certain limits for customs clearance purposes only when use of the coun- try's foreign exchange fund is not involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the Bank of Mozambique upon presentation of the authorization granted by the Ministry of Finance. Allowances for travel are made available to individuals only in certain cases, namely for medical treatment purposes. Each Ministry receives an allocation to be used for business travel and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad a percentage of their salaries, depending on the salary level. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount declared on en t ry. Exports and reimports of domestic currency are limited to Mt. 500 a person leaving the country temporarily, to meet incidental expenses on returning. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. Export licenses are granted if applicable legal requirements are fulfilled. Under a new foreign exchange administration system, enterprises or sectors may retain a variable percentage of their foreign exchange proceeds for their purchases of imported inputs. 1 Austrian schilling, Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French f ranc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, Portuguese es- cudo, pound sterling, South African rand, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollar. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Mozambique. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital The Government and the Bank of Mozambique are authorized to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing is channeled through the Bank of Mozambique, which registers and guarantees such transactions. The Foreign Investment Law aims to encourage the participation of foreign capital both in the formation of new enterprises with exclusively foreign capital and in investments in existing enterprises. For this purpose, a Foreign Invest- ment Promotion Office has been created. The Investment Law specifies guarantees to investors as well as the right to transfer a portion of profits and invested capital abroad. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods of time and access to domestic credit. MOZAMBIQUE Gold There are no legal limitations on gold acquisitions. Imports of gold jewelry or other precious metals are governed by special regulations. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The special buying rate for inward remittances from Mozambican miners in South Africa was abolished. Prescription of Currency June 19. A bilateral agreement was signed with Zimbabwe. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, the exchange rate of which fluctuates on the basis of a currency basket. On December 31,1986 the official buy ing and selling rates were NRs 21.90 and NRs 22.10, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Only buy ing rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, Danish kroner, Swedish kronor, Hong Kong dollars, and Saudi Arabian riyals, based on buying rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks, and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin. The Nepal Rastra Bank guarantees free and unlimited convertibility between Indian and Nepalese rupees; however, Indian rupees are not legal tender in Nepal. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all payments in convertible currencies except for import payments and certain other specified payments. The licensing of imports from countries other than India is administered by the Department of Commerce. Each government ministry receives an allocation under the foreign exchange budget. The licensing of exports of most goods to countries other than India is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank L td ., Nepal Arab Bank, Indo Suez Bank, and the Rastriya Banijya Bank). There are nonbank authorized dealers licensed to pur- chase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force,2 and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (Bangladesh, Burma, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from India are settled in Indian rupees. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from other countries must be received in any of the quoted Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. 2Nepal maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Bulgaria, Czech- oslovakia, Poland, and the U .S .S .R .; payments for transactions under the agreement with Poland are settled through a special account. 358 convertible currencies for which the Nepal Rastra Bank quotes buying and selling rates. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and determine the rate of interest on such deposits. Eligibility for the opening of such accounts is limited to (1) Nepalese citizens earning convertible foreign currency from employment in inter- national organizations, agencies, or embassies; (2) Ne- palese citizens earning foreign currency by working abroad (except in India and Bhutan) for more than six months; (3) international organizations and foreign nationals; and (4) Indian and Bhutanese citizens residing in countries other than Nepal, India, or Bhu tan. Current and time deposit accounts can be opened, the latter for periods of three mon ths, six mon ths, nine mon ths, or one year. Current accounts may be opened with a m in imum of US$1,000 (or the equivalent), and time deposits with a m in imum of US$5,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents can withdraw their deposits at any time, and these can be converted into any convertible currency at the com- mercial banks. In the case of Nepalese citizens returning from overseas, foreign currency accounts have to be surrendered for local currency w i th in one year of return to Nepal. Before that time limit expires, 70 percent of the local currency value of the deposit can be exchanged for import licenses in the same value and the remainder can be exchanged for local currency. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, can be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from India do not require import licenses. All other imports require import licenses and are subject to quantitative restrictions, except imports under baggage rules. Imports of certain items, such as cigarettes and matches, goods considered harmful for health, arms, ammunition and explosives, wireless transmitters, pre- cious metals and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission of the Governmen t. Imports of several items, including beef, washing soap (except from India), and detergent powder, are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India have agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Ne- palese and Indian goods; Indian goods may, in principle, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation, and certain others are subject to export ceilings in India). Reimburse- ment of tax is made by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of products subject to excise du ty in India. Under a new system intended to simplify procedures for the importation of industrial raw materials and to reduce uncer ta in ty about their availability, enterpreneurs may apply for a passbook. They receive entitlements for imported inputs (in the form of a passbook for a period of one year) based on the previous year's production level and the current year's production program, with the possibility of their renewal after expiration. The total value of the passbook may be adjusted in case of changes in capacity. Import licenses are automatically issued against these entitlements. Import licenses are also auctioned for specified goods. The total value of import licenses to be auctioned depends on the available amount of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange is automatically provided to successful bidders at the official exchange rate. License fees based on the value of licenses are imposed as follows: ( 1 )1 percent for certain items subject to quotas (including fertilizers, cement, certain petroleum products, raw wool, cotton, and industrial mach inery); and (2) 5, 10, and 25 percent for other industrial and construction materials, essential consumer goods, and luxury items, respectively. License fees also apply to those goods for which import licenses are auctioned. Margin deposits are required on letters of credit as follows: (1) 10 percent for imports of industrial raw materials, machinery, and spare parts under the World Bank loan program; (2) 30 percent for imports of development and construction materials such as cement, iron and iron rods, and corrugated sheets; (3) 40 percent for imports of dairy products, writing paper or newspr in t, agricultural goods, and educational and scientific materials; (4) 50 percent for other goods other than luxury goods; and (5) 75 percent for luxury goods. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least seven nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, they can import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, goods worth up to NRs 15,000 twice a year. For those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one mon th, additional imports are allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for amounts of NRs 500 or over, the purpose of the payment must be declared. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, exchange allowance is granted as recom- mended by a panel of doctors. Students s tudy ing at their own expense in these countries are granted exchange allowance covering expenses for board and lodging on the recommendation of the Department of Education, NEPAL while exchange allowance for tuition fees is granted as required. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips, but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without per- mission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and religious importance (such as ancient statues, paintings, and coins) and certain other products including gold, silver, gold coins, diamonds, jewelry made of gold or diamonds, wild animals, musk and musk deer, snake and lizard skins, narcotics, explosive materials, chemicals for ammunition, raw skin and wool, Coca-Cola, logs and sawn wood, and other specified items are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re- export to any destination of goods imported from India is prohibited. All exports to other destinations, except handicrafts, woolen goods other than carpets, hessians, and ju te bags, dry ginger, cardamom, cheese, catechu, rice bran cake, medicinal herbs, turmeric and rice bran, and processed skins, require export licenses. The exchange proceeds from exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six mon ths after shipment. Un it values are defined on an f .o .b. basis. Exports of ju te, ju te goods, rice, turmeric, catechu, oil cake, food- grains, pulses, processed and semi-processed leather, woolen carpet, and ready-made garments to countries other than India in excess of US$1,000 in value are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as sou- venirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum period of three mon ths; this period may be extended without penalties under special circumstances outside the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these cur- rencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in imum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but they must be declared. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resi- dent in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of inves tment in foreign countries, except inves tment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemp- tions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of inves tmen t, dividends, interest or principal repayment, amounts arising from the transfer of technology, and compensations on acquired assets. In the case of proceeds of inves tment sales and d iv idends, remittances may be subject to installments fixed by the Governmen t. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement May 31. A new exchange rate regime was in troduced, under which the Nepalese rupee was pegged within margins to a new basket of currencies, which includes the Indian rupee; previously, the exchange rate of the Indian rupee was quoted independently of the currency basket. July 7. An auction system for import licenses for 11 items of goods to be imported from countries other than India was introduced. Foreign exchange is automatically provided to successful bidders at the official exchange rate. Bids are restricted to registered traders with valid income tax clearance certificates. Bids have to specify the goods, the value of licenses, and the premium the bidder is willing to pay. An amount equivalent to 5 percent of the value of the tenders must be deposited in a noninterest-bearing account with the Department of Com- merce upon submission of the tenders. This fee is applied toward the payment of the premium. Successful bidders are required to collect their licenses within five days and deposit the premium and regular license fees w i th in that period. Unsuccessful bidders obtain a refund of their deposits w i th in the same period. The premium to be paid by successful bidders is calculated on the weighted average of the offered premia that exceed the minimum premium determined for each category by the Department of Commerce. November 19. The Department of Commerce published a notice calling bids for the second lot of auction of import licenses, which covered all items subject to quantitative restrictions and sugar. Imports and Import Payments January 24. Nepal and the United States signed an agreement fixing export quotas for four major categories of ready-made garments to the United States and limiting to 6 percent per annum the increase in the volume of exports of these items to the United States. April 22. The facility for Nepalese travellers who had spent at least seven nights abroad to bring in goods free of customs du ty and sales tax was reduced from NRs 2,000 to NRs 1,000. August 11. A passbook system was introduced to simplify the import procedures for industrial raw materials and to reduce uncertainty about their availability. Under this scheme, entrepreneurs receive en t i t lemen ts for im- ported inputs (in the form of a passbook) based on the previous year's production level and the current year's production program for a period of one year and with the possibility of their renewal after expiration. The total value of the passbook may be changed in case of capacity changes. Import licenses are issued against these entitle- men ts. Exports and Export Proceeds January 4. Exports of 80 percent of pulses produc- tion are allowed without permission from the local administration. January 24. Commercial banks were permitted to grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of f.o.b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credits may be provided for a maximum period of three months, but the period can be extended without penalties under special circumstances outside the control of the exporter. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Den- mark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the Nether- lands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1986 these rates were as follows: Netherlands Guilders Specified Intervention Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1 00 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 10,000 Italian lire 5.642 3 1 . 1 1 75 1 15.235 35.39 3.18 17.10 5.3935 29.7475 110.1675 33.8325 3.04 15.17 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the sys tem, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for 15 foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1986 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were f. 2.19075 and f. 2.19325, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward; they are free to deal with residents and nonres- iden ts, whe ther banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an under ly ing trade transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions and they may conclude forward transactions for any period. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts in the Ne th- erlands. 'A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Italian l i re, Ir ish pound s, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing, inc lud ing transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the del- egated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their pay- men ts to and receipts from nonresidents in the Nether- lands, residents are generally required to use the inter- mediation of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions w i th in the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting fo rms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 5,000, the nature of the under ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and ma in ta in bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Netherlands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. Prescription of Currency In effecting paymen ts to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made free ly. There are no bilateral paymen ts agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonres ident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect paymen ts to, or collect receipts f rom, residents. All paymen ts or receipts are freely perm i t ted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. 2The only trans it trade transac t ions s t i ll sub ject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state-trading countries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries (see footnote 3), most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made free ly, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted free ly. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic bank notes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted free ly. Nonresidents may export all unutilized documen ts of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Ne th- erlands bank notes and coin that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few commodi- ties, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agri- cultural products, iron and steel scrap and related prod- ucts, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonres iden ts may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Ne ther lands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. 3State-trading countries are defined for th is purpose as consisting of Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Repub- lic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. 362 Capital Exchange control in the Ne the r lands is based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980. This Act limits potential restriction to capital transactions, except when current paymen ts and capital transactions are in terwoven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. External capital transactions are unres tr ic ted. Direct inves tment in the form of capital participations (inward and outward) is free of license. Short-term lending (for less than two years) to nonresidents (whe ther affiliated companies or others) is also free of license, as is longer- term lending. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of both residents as well as nonresidents are subject to the issues calendar and, if necessary, limited by the Ne the r lands Bank to ensure orderly market con- ditions. However, the no t if ica t ion requ irement applies only to issues exceeding f. 50 million. Transactions between residents and nonres iden ts in all stocks and bonds listed on the Ams terdam Stock Ex- change take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Res iden ts may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben tures denom ina ted in guilders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in un l is ted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; secu- rities held in the Ne ther lands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or inves tmen t, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents within the framework of such transactions are free of license. Gifts and donations to nonres iden ts are free. Emigrants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Ne th- erlands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Ne ther lands. Nonres iden ts inher- iting from estates in the Ne the r lands may have the proceeds transferred to them free ly. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions. Banks must pursue a policy to ensure that open positions in foreign currency and precious metals in excess of normal bank ing l im i ts are avoided. In th is context, the banks are required to report in each foreign currency and precious metal their spot position, their forward position with res iden ts and nonresidents, as well as their positions resulting from foreign currency and precious metal options at the end of each mon th; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid- mon th. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange con- tracts with nonres iden ts are forwarded to the Ne ther lands Bank. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonres iden ts. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonres iden ts and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents must be reported to the Balance of Paymen ts Department of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. are domestic sales of gold coin. All other gold transactions are taxed at 20 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state-trading coun- tries (see footnote 3). Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only with monetary authorities and international financial institutions. Ne i ther the Netherlands Bank nor any gov- ernment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Ne ther lands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Ne ther lands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 5 percent, as Changes During 1986 Capital January 1. A number of measures aimed at deregulating the domestic capital market were introduced. October 1. The licensing system under which prior approval by the Netherlands Bank was required for the issue of foreign guilder bonds on the Dutch capital market, for purchase by residents of unquo ted foreign guilder bonds, and for longer-term guilder loans amounting to more than f. 10 million per year to nonresidents was abolished. The licensing requirement for forward trans- actions in foreign currencies against guilders through intermediaries other than banks was abolished. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Neth- erlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.79 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at NA f. 1.80 per US$1; it does not normally deal with the public. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax3 of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents.4 Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Commerce, Indus try, and Employ- ment. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Neth- erlands Antillean guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antillean guilders. All payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the central bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with authorized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Imports whose delivery and payment dates are more than 12 •The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986 the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. 3Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. 4A11 currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guilder are consid- ered foreign currencies. 364 months apart must be reported to the central bank. The importation of certain products for which there are locally produced substitutes is subject to quotas. Certain com- modities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in. The export of bank notes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. If export pro- ceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible pro- ceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfer of loans to residents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Investments by residents in real estate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresidents require a license. Inves tment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antilles do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign secu- rities is permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 annually. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank accounts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 5,000 per transaction. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresidents is subjected to limits set by the central bank, and must always be positive and in currencies listed in Article XXX of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Dutch guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely ne- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Import and export of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1986 Administration of Control July 1. Foreign exchange transactions were allowed to be made without restriction unless they are specifically subjected to approval. Generally speaking, current pay- ments may be made freely, whereas capital transactions remain subject to approval. Imports and Import Payments October 14. Import quotas were introduced on 43 items for which locally produced substitutes are available. The products list included beer, soap, paint, edible oil, flour, rice, fu rn i tu re, and mattresses. Annual imports of soap and edible oil were permitted up to 10 percent of the total purchase of locally manufactured goods (for beer, 20 percent). For the other restricted items, the following import quota system would be in force. The import quota NETHERLANDS ANTILLES for 1987 would be 60 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports of 1986, and those for 1988 would be 50 percent of their c.i.f. value of 1987 imports. From 1989 onward, imports would be limited to 40 percent of the total value of locally manufactured and foreign bought goods. Capital November 1. Residents were allowed to invest in officially listed foreign securities up to an annual maximum amount of NA f. 100,000. November 1. Trust offices were allowed to transfer their shares in offshore companies to nonresidents without prior authorization by the central bank. November 1. General licenses would be issued to residents to acquire real estate in the Netherlands Antilles from nonresidents or to sell such real estate to nonresidents. November 1. Residents maintaining accounts with a nonresident bank were allowed to deposit, through the mediation of an authorized bank, up to NA f. 10,000 each quarter, with an annual maximum limit of NA f. 40,000. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the closing buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5250 and US$0.5240, respectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks and authorized foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 5, 1982 New Zealand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. The trading banks and authorized dealers are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange con- tracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained. These forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. Administration of Control Following the relaxation of exchange control regula- tions in December 1984, receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from controls. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand continues to administer the re- maining exchange control provisions, which are as fol- lows: (1) exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transactions involving for- eign currency bank notes, coin and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be handled by a trading bank or an authorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, except for small amoun ts, memoranda of receipt and remittance are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from overseas and for remittances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of prudential supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign exchange market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations governing foreign direct investment in New Zealand, while export and import licensing is the respon- sibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Indus try, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign 366 currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of paymen t. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade (ANZCERT) Agreement and South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) ,2 almost all imports from Australia and all imports from the SPARTECA countries are exempt from import licensing. For those imports that are subject to licensing, most licenses are issued under a tender sys tem. Tendering is intended to provide a simple means of moving away from the licensing sys tem. Once premiums for tender licenses fall to specified trigger levels, the goods become, de facto, exempt from the licensing requirements. Imports of cer- tain manufactured products, e.g., footwear, clothing, and motor vehicles, are subject to special industrial plans.3 Most licenses issued may be used to import from any source; the main exceptions to this are licenses under special schemes and agreements, such as the developing countries' handicraft scheme, the special trade license scheme, and the ANZCERT Agreement. The majority of licenses are freely transferable between importers. ''No-remittance licenses" for goods controlled under the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, for example, for advertising material sup- plied free of charge, g if ts, passengers' baggage, replace- ment of fau l ty or damaged goods, trade samples supplied free of charge, and temporary imports. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded preferential tariff preferences under the Generalized Sys- tem of Preferences. In addition, du ty - f ree access is granted to all imports from 36 countries classified as "least developed" by the Un i ted Nations organizations. With a few exceptions, tariffs are not imposed on finished goods that are not produced domestically. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks and other authorized foreign ex- change dealers are permitted to sell foreign exchange for 'Foreign currencies are def ined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2The is lands under th is arrangement are those con s t i tu t ing the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Aus t ra l ia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, Fiji, K i r iba t i, N a u r u, N i u e, Papua New Gu inea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuva lu, V anu a tu, and Western Samoa. 3W i th the excep t ion of some indu s t r ies subject to special indus t r ial plans (e.g., footwear, c lo th ing, and some motor veh ic les ), import licensing is scheduled to cease on Ju ly 1, 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution invisible paymen ts; and the remittance abroad of divi- dends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligation to nonresidents may be freely made, although in both cases there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no requirement for obligatory return of export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) through the banking system. General export licenses, valid for five years, are issued to regular exporters. Particular export licenses, as required, are issued to new exporters or to those who do not export on a regular basis. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Under the Export Market Development Taxation In- centive (EMDTI), the development of export markets has been encouraged through the provision of credit. The scheme is now being phased out.4 To facilitate export competitiveness, import licenses can be issued to manufacturing exporters for materials and components where it is established that equivalent goods available from domestic sources have price or other characteristics that jeopardize export performance. Bonus import licenses are available to manufacturers who have exported manufactured goods in which licensed imported raw materials and components have been used. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) and interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio inves tment is not required to be repatriated. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring 4The Export Performance Taxation Incen t ive (EPTI) was abolished at the end of the financial year 1986/87. The liberalization measures an- nounced by the New Zealand authorities on August 15, 1984 included decisions that (1) the EPTI wou ld be phased out between Apr il 1, 1985 and April 1, 1987, and (2) the ongoing review of other forms of export assistance would be con t inued, w i th a view to completing it as soon as possible. NEW ZEALAND into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and do- mestic bank notes and coin. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Inves tment Commission. Nonresident per- sons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are also required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the invest- ment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 percent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for investment purposes. Emigrants may transfer abroad their entire assets upon their departure from New Zealand. Remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident is freely permitted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes During 1986 Administration of Control October 16. The Exchange Control Regulations were amended to permit freely the exchange of foreign currency bank notes, coin, and traveler's checks for New Zealand money by any party in addition to the trading banks and authorized foreign exchange dealers. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariffs on finished goods not manufactured in New Zealand were reduced to zero, except where trade policy obligations required differential treatment. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan Cordoba. Nicaragua maintains a multiple exchange rate system consisting of an official exchange rate of C$70 = US$1, a "free" market rate administered by an authorized exchange house on the basis of supply and demand, and several special fixed rates, including a number of implicit exchange rates arising from the mixing of the official and "free" rates for specified transactions. On December 31, 1986 the buying rate in the free market was C$2,300 = US$1. In addition, there is an unrecognized parallel market in which the value of the cordoba fluctuates widely. Only the Central Bank, the authorized commercial banks, and the authorized exchange house can buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange house are prohibited. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on July 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange, but has authorized commercial banks and an exchange house to make foreign exchange transactions. However, the Central Bank ap- proves all foreign exchange transactions in the official exchange market. All requests for official foreign ex- change are subject to a comprehensive system of admin- istrative rationing. Requests relating to low-priority im- ports and invisible payments are routinely rejected. The Central Bank is also responsible for classifying imports and for issuing export authorizations. All transactions not eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system can be effected in the "free" exchange market or through own foreign currency deposit accounts. An exchange house is authorized to conduct all transactions in the "free" market. Exchange licensing in the official exchange market is fully integrated with import licensing. There are four steps in the process of approving requests for purchase from the banking system of foreign exchange for imports. First, the pertinent sectoral ministry determines if a foreign exchange request is consistent with development priori- ties. Second, the Technical Commission on Exports and Imports (CTIE) determines that requests approved by each sectoral ministry are w i th in their exchange budget allocation. Third, the Ministerial Commission on Foreign Exchange, which is composed of the President of the Central Bank and the Ministers of Finance, External Trade, and External Cooperation, determines if global demand for foreign exchange is consistent with the supply. 368 Fourth, the Central Bank Commission on Foreign Ex- change Allocation (CAD) does a final check on the requirements of the first three steps and on the actual availability of foreign exchange. A representative of the President of the Republic may participate in meetings of the CAD, which has the final veto on requests. Importers using their own foreign currency accounts are not required to go through the four-step approval process, but they are required to show proof of sources of funds and are subject to an annual limit of US$10,000, unless higher amounts are specifically authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica and El Salvador with respect to trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House; however, there are mon th ly limits on bank notes per exporter for com- pensation through the Central American Clearing House. Trade transactions with Honduras are settled on a three- month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement; if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate settlement is required. Trade transactions w i th Guatemala are carried out in U .S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All importers using foreign exchange through the bank- ing system are required to be registered with the Ministry of External Trade; this requirement can be waived for individuals who import only occasionally for their own needs and who make import settlements with foreign exchange obtained in the official market. There are three categories of registered importers: (1) The Empresa Ni- caraguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, which has a virtual monopoly on imports of agricultural inpu ts; (2) the Empresa Nicaraguense de Importaciones, which imports capital goods for the People's Property Area (APP) enterprises (both being state enterprises under the supervision of the Ministry of External Trade); and (3) commercial and industrial importers, including border traders. Border traders are given a general license to import or export up to the equivalent of US$1,500 a month (at the free market rate). In principle, general import licenses are valid un t il the end of the calendar year in which they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit the validity of licenses in certain cases to only 60 days. For individual imports other than imports financed with own foreign-currency deposit accounts or with foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange from the free ma rke t, a specific permit is requ ired. Importers must initiate the ir application w i th the pe r t inent sectoral m in i s t ry. Applications w i th the higher priorities are then subm i t ted to the Technical Commission for Imports and Exports for fu r ther screen- ing. Screened applications are subm i t ted to the Ministerial Commission on Foreign Exchange for approval and sub- sequently to the Central Bank Commission for Foreign Exchange Allocation for a final decision. Imports eligible for foreign exchange through the bank- ing system are paid at the official rate of C$70 per US$1. Imports can also be financed w i th the use of own foreign- currency deposit accounts up to a limit of US$10,000 a year, un less higher amounts are specifically authorized by the Central Bank, or from the free exchange marke t. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected by bank check or certified check in cordobas, authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be settled through the bank ing sys tem .1 Some import paymen ts are made with sight draf ts, but most import paymen ts are made through letters of credit. Central Bank approval is required to open letters of credit; the banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange before the arrival of the import documents. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted that either payment or acceptance of payment has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the credit terms, but this requirement does not apply to du ty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. The Central Bank may au- thorize deferred paymen ts or payment w i th funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, usually for imports of raw materials and capital goods intended for priority development. In addition to customs du t ies, many nonessen t ial im- ports are subject to a special import du ty of C$3 per US$1, and many essential imports, to a special import du ty of C$2 per US$1. Certain imports are also subject to a selective consump t ion tax, irrespective of origin, and to a customs fee of C$1,000 per ton or frac t ion thereof. In add i t ion, most commodities, whe ther imported or domestically produced, are subject to a 10 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles All sales of foreign exchange by the bank ing system for paymen ts of inv is ib les must be authorized by the Central Bank a n d, except in the case of interest paymen ts on debt contracted prior to May 31, 1986, are transacted at the official rate of C$70 per US$1. Interest paymen ts on external debt disbursed prior to February 8, 1985 are transacted at a special rate of C$10 per US$1, while 'However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L (e f fec t ive March 1, 1963), the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconu ts, copra, and coconut by- produc ts exported th rough the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Depar tment of Zelaya may be used by the expor ters to pay for imports consumed in these areas. NICARAGUA interest paymen ts on external debt disbursed between February 8, 1985 and May 31, 1986 are transacted at the exchange rate at which the original debt was contracted. Holders of foreign currency-denom ina ted accounts with the domestic banks may use those accounts up to US$10,000 a year for paymen ts of inv is ib les, unless higher amounts are specifically authorized by the Central Bank. Resident travelers are not allowed to take out more than US$500 in foreign bank notes at any given time, and may not take in or out of the country more than C$5,000 a mon th in domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Five public enterprises under the Ministry of External Trade have a monopoly on the exports of coffee, cotton, meat, sugar, and certain non-traditional exports; export of these items requires a general authorization from the Central Bank. Other exports require specific authorization from the Central Bank, which is issued after it is verified that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in international markets. With a few exceptions, foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 30 to 60 days of sh ipmen t. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in revocation of the export license. All proceeds from principal traditional exports (coffee, cotton, sesame, sugar, and beef) must be surrendered at the official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1. Proceeds of banana exports are surrendered at C$312 per US$1. Of the proceeds from nontraditional exports, 25 percent can be sold at the "free" rate, and 75 percent, at the official exchange rate. Under the special foreign exchange bonus scheme provided by the Central Bank for producers of cattle, coffee, and cotton, producers selling their product to the state marke t ing company are entitled to purchase from the Central Bank a certain amount of U .S. dollars at the official rate; the bonus varies depending on the kind and qua l i ty of the product. Producers in the private sector can use these dollars for any purpose or exchange them at the "free" market rate; producers in the People's Property Area, however, must either deposit these dollars in special foreign exchange accounts to be used only for essential imports, or exchange them at the "free" market rate to pay existing domestic bank debt. A few agricultural export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, wh ich are applied progressively with the international prices for those exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from fre igh t, trade-related insurance, transportation and port services, service income of Ni- caraguan embassies and consulates abroad, receipts from telecommunications, and inves tment income of the finan- cial system must be converted at the official rate of C$70 per US$1. One half of the exchange receipts from insur- ance and port services not related to merchandise trade, sales of foreign exchange by airlines and hotels to cover 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA local costs, commissions of travel agencies, receipts from car rentals, sales of foreign exchange by embassies, and receipts from movie rentals must be converted at the official rate of C$70 per US$1, and the other half, at the 4' f ree" rate. This requirement also applies to receipts from institutional cash donations. Receipts from family remittances can be sold at the "free" rate. Tourists are required to exchange US$50 at the official rate of C$70 per U .S. dollar upon arrival, but can sell any other amount at the "free" rate. Charges for hotel rooms (including international telephone calls) must be settled in U .S. dollars. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. Foreign exchange receipts from loans and investments made under the Foreign Inves tment Law must be surrendered to the Central Bank through its authorized agents at the official exchange rate. Foreign exchange for servicing of external debt disbursed before February 8, 1985 is sold at a special rate of C$10 per US$1; for the servicing of external debt contracted after May 31, 1986, foreign exchange is provided at the official rate of C$70 per U.S. dollar; and for the servicing of external debt disbursed between February 8, 1985 and May 31, 1986, the applicable rate is the exchange rate at which the original debt was contracted. Depending on the availability of foreign exchange, Central Bank au- thorization is given for servicing private external debt. There are substantial arrears on principal obligations on public external debt. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the coun try's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in international gold markets. The Central Bank can sell gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The official exchange rate was devalued from C$28 per US$1 to C$70 per US$1. This exchange rate was applied to the surrender of all traditional exports and trade-related invisibles and the payment of all imports (other than petroleum) and all invisibles (except interest). Several implicit exchange rates arising from various mixing arrangements involving the official and "free" rates also were introduced for the surrender of certain exports and invisibles receipts. August 20. A payment mechanism for intraregional trade, called Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA), was approved in principle.2 The DICA is a U.S. dollar-denominated, non-interest-bearing, negotiable, transferable obligation of the Central Bank of an importing 2As of March 31, 1987, the DICA was not yet in operation. 370 country in Central America, payable in its local currency w i th in a period of 18 mon ths. Prior to ma tur i ty, DIC As can be negotiated freely w i th in the region for trade settlements, and at ma tu r i ty, they will be liquidated by the issuing central bank. Prescription of Currency May 13. Nicaragua and Honduras concluded a bilateral agreement, whereby all trade transactions between the two countries will be conducted through a reciprocal credit arrangement; outstanding balances under the ar- rangement are required to be settled every three months in U .S. dollars; if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate settlement is required. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A reform of the Central American Common External Tariff was introduced. The reforms included the conversion of specific import taxes to their ad valorem equivalents, the replacement of the regional Nomencla- tura Arancelaria Uniforme para Centro America (NAUCA) tariff classification by a new classification based on the Brussels Nomenclature, and the reduction of nominal tariff rates for certain items, together with the elimination of tariff exemptions. February 1. The official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1 was made applicable to payments for all imports (other than petroleum) eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system. March 8. The official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1 was made applicable to payments for petroleum imports. April 24. Customs duties and other charges on imports financed through own foreign exchange and the "free" exchange market are to be levied on the basis of the foreign currency price converted at the free exchange rate. To guarantee essential supplies, the Minister of Finance may exempt essential goods as well as agricultural and industrial inputs from this regulation. May 14. A customs fee of C$1,000 per ton, or fraction thereof, was introduced on certain merchandise imports cleared through customs. May 31. It was announced tha t, effective Ju ly 1, 1986, customs storage costs would be raised to one Central American peso a day for every 100 kilos or fraction thereof, to be converted at the official exchange rate. For merchandise entering by air, the fee is two Central American pesos a day; merchandise entering by mail is not subject to the new fee. Payments for Invisibles February 1. The official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1 was applied to payments for all invisibles (except interest on external debt contracted prior to May 31, 1986) through the banking system. Foreign exchange for interest payments on external debt disbursed before February 8, 1985 could be purchased at a special rate of C$10 per US$1. Foreign exchange for interest payments on external debt contracted between February 8, 1985 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and May 31, 1986 could be purchased at the exchange rate at which the loan was contracted. Exports and Export Proceeds January 7. The Central Bank introduced a special foreign exchange incentive for the production of cotton during the 1985/86 harvest. Producers selling their cotton to the Nicaraguan Cotton Enterprise (ENAL) were en- titled to receive the guaranteed producer price. In addi- tion, those producers who exceeded certain average productivity levels were entitled to purchase from the Central Bank U.S. dollars (US$11.25 per quintal of cotton fiber) at the official exchange rate. Producers in the private sector can use dollars for any purpose or sell them at the "free" exchange market rate. Producers in the People's Property Area (APP) were required either to deposit these dollars in a special foreign exchange account to be used only for imports of essential inpu ts or to exchange them at the "free" rate to pay existing bank debt in local currency. February 1. The official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1 was applied to the surrender of proceeds of the principal traditional exports (coffee, cotton, sesame, sugar, and beef). In the case of nontraditional exports, 25 percent of export proceeds could be surrendered at the "free" rate, and the rest, at the official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1. May 2. The Central Bank modified the special foreign exchange incentive scheme for the production of cotton. All producers selling staple cotton to the ENAL were entitled to receive the guaranteed producer price and to purchase from the Central Bank at the official exchange rate bonus foreign exchange, ranging from US$1.00 to NICARAGUA US$6.50 per quintal, depending on quality. (Previously, only those producers who exceeded certain average productivity levels were entitled to purchase the bonus foreign exchange from the Central Bank.) May 2. Producers selling their coffee to the Nicaraguan Coffee Institute were entitled to purchase from the Central Bank at the official exchange rate bonus foreign exchange, ranging from US$4 per quintal to US$13 per quintal, depending on the quality. June 24. An exchange rate of C$312 per US$1 was made applicable to banana exports; this change would apply retroactively with effect from January 1, 1986. October 22. The Central Bank modified the special incentive for coffee production. In addition to selling US$10 per quintal of coffee at the official exchange rate, the Central Bank started to provide a local currency grant of C$7,000 per quintal to producers of coffee sold to the National Coffee Institute. Proceeds from Invisibles February 1. Receipts from freight, trade-related insur- ance and port services, foreign exchange income of the State Telecommunication Company, and service income of Nicaraguan embassies abroad must be surrendered at the official exchange rate of C$70 per US$1. One half of the proceeds from insurance and port services not related to merchandise trade, sales of foreign exchange by airlines and hotels to cover local costs, commissions of travel agencies, receipts from telephone and telex communica- tions, commissions of foreign trading firms, and sales of foreign exchange by foreign embassies and consultants were required to be surrendered at the "free" rate, and the remainder, at the official rate. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.01 percent on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion (WAMU) and one of 0.025 percent on t rans fe rs to such countries. Transfers by the Treasury and the Postal Administration and transactions in bank notes and trav- eler's checks are exempted. Banks levy a fixed commis- sion of CFAF 100 plus a proportional levy of 0.25 percent for transfers inside the Un ion. For transfers outside the French franc zone there is a fu r ther exchange commission at a market determined rate. Seventy-two percent of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers outside the Union must in tu rn be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Bur- kina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d' lvo ire, Equatorial Gu inea, Ga- bon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made free ly. All other coun tr ies are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex ternal Finance Directorate in the M in is try of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is tra- tion, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or au- thorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Transportation, subject to endorsement by the External Finance Directorate, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Directorate. 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in B e n i n, B u r k i na Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Mali, N iger, Senegal, and Togo. 372 Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, se t t lemen ts with France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any franc area country. Current paymen ts to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, L iber ia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements w i th Nigeria are still effected th rough special accoun ts .2 Se t t lemen ts with all other countries are usua l ly effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in foreign currenc ies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be credited w i th BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in N iamey by an authorized bank 's foreign corresponden t. Otherwise, the cred i t ing to non- resident accounts of BCEAO bank no tes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is proh ib i ted. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cemen t, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, bu tane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whe ther an import license or import certificate is required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common African and Mauritian Orga- nization, and to imports of ma tches, un less they originate in a member country of the West African Economic Commun i ty (WAEC). Impor ts from France and from countries l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account of all goods other than those mentioned above (or those listed in Article 1 of Order No. 042/MC/ DCE of October 18, 1982) may be made freely w i thout a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require 2The bilateral p a ym e n ts agreement w i th Nigeria lapsed at the end of 1977. Howeve r, N iger con t inu es to ma in ta in accoun ts with banks in N iger ia credited w i th rece ip ts of exports to N iger ia by certain pub l ic en te rp r ises in N ige r; the f u n ds are used to finance impo r ts of oil from Nigeria by en terpr ises in N ige r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EC, many goods from other OECD countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program determined each year by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation. Licenses for certain cot- ton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corre- sponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan- titative restriction may be imported on an import certificate. All import monopolies and quasi-monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), w i th the exception of imports of petroleum produc ts, were abol- ished during the second half of 1985. In particular, beginning from October 1, 1985, the Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the import of specified commodities, including salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genu ine and in accordance w i th the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Directorate if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or un t il eight days prior to the shipment date if the goods are covered by documen tary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as def ined above), Monaco, and countries linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Directorate, wh ich for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic trans- action has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Mon- aco, and countries linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under 10 years), which may be taken up to twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings from their salaries by foreigners working in Niger NIGER is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Directorate and is normally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, against presentation of supporting documents. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count, in addition to their travel allocation. Residents trave l ing to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes bu t, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the West African Monetary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon en t ry ,3 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authori- zation of the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cotton- seed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made free ly. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange comm i tmen t. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one mon th of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income 3This amount is reduced, wh en appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for o ther foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase w i th CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000). 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two mon ths of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require approval by the exchange control au- thority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Gov- ernmen t, and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at sub- scribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated paymen ts or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance;4 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 374 of investment also requires prior declaration to the Min- ister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien inves tmen ts abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct inves tmen ts constitute investments im- plying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are imme- diately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct inves tment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct invest- men t; the repayment of other borrowings requires au- thorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Inves tment Code of July 31, 1968 and its amending texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Inves tment Code have been maintained. The new Inves tment Code provides for priv- ileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assur- ances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concern- ing nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new inves tmen ts. Privileged treatment is reserved for enter- prises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified cate- gories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1986 Exports and Export Proceeds January 9. New procedures for the repatriation of export receipts were introduced (Circular No. 001/MF/ DFE/CA). NIGER 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. Nigeria has a dual exchange rate system. The first-tier exchange rate, which is managed flexibly against the U.S. dollar, is applied to the servicing of external debt obligations contracted prior to the introduction of the new exchange system (September 29, 1986) and to official paymen ts and transfers to multilateral ins t i tu t ions and Nigerian embas- sies abroad. All other transactions are channeled through the second- tier foreign exchange market (SFEM) and take place at market-determined exchange rates. These rates are set in a weekly auction organized by the Central Bank of Nigeria in which the authorized foreign exchange dealers and the Central Bank of Nigeria participate. An exchange charge of 0.5 percent is levied on transactions in the auction market. The second-tier foreign exchange market combines the weekly price-setting in the auction with the operation during the week of interbank and customer exchange markets. There is a 1 percent maximum spread between buy ing and selling exchange rates for customer and interbank transactions. On December 31, 1986 the midpoint exchange rate of the naira in the interbank market was N 3.30 = US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market-determined rates are permitted between foreign exchange dealers and their customers. These transactions must be the counter- part of an underlying import or export transac t ion, and the maturity of the cover must not extend beyond six mon ths. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for capital transfers abroad; profits and div- idends; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign se- curities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized deal- ers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall w i th in the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted for the transactions mentioned above to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and traveler's checks. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be re- patriated to Nigeria and may be sold in the SFEM or may be retained in Domiciliary Accounts with commercial banks in Nigeria; they are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. 376 The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal M in is try of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized paymen ts may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of West African states (for Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresident accounts: External Accoun ts, Nonres ident Accounts, Domiciliary Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and international organizations. They may be credited with authorized paymen ts by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign curren- cies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Domiciliary Accounts may be funded by residents with foreign ex- change derived from external sources, but not with foreign exchange purchases in the SFEM. Funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act are credited to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the introduction of the SFEM. Items that may not be imported are subdivided into two categories: those whose importation is prohibited, and those that may be imported only as personal effects. The first category contains 22 items, among which are maize, rice, air pistols, counterfeit coins of any country, secondhand clothing, certain types of spirits, meat declared to be un f it for consump t ion, and indecent or obscene prints. The second category com- prises 16 items, including cigarettes, poultry (except day- old chicks), vegetables, fresh f ru i t, potatoes, eggs, textile fabrics, beer, fresh m i lk, rice and rice products, maize ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and maize products, wheat and wheat products, mineral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at US$50,000 (c. & f.) or more are subject to preshipment inspection to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quan t i ty according to the contracts, and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid.1 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents to Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents. However, such payment is made on the unde rs tand ing that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged with the authorized exchange dealer as agents of the Nigerian government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of en try (for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized exchange dealer w i th in 90 days of the receipt of paymen t. All other means of payment require submission to the authorized exchange dealer of the full set of documen ts, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria. Delivery of foreign exchange for a valid purchase order must take place within three working days from the due date of paymen t. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles. Basic allowances are provided for some pay- men ts, and applications for amounts in excess of these allowances are approved automatically, provided that adequate documentation is provided to show that they are not for the purpose of transferr ing capital abroad. As with imports, verification is on an "ex post" basis, i.e., depending on the paymen ts arrangements, based on documentation obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is US$500 per annum, and for business trave l, US$2,500 per trip per enterprise, subject to a max imum of two trips per year. Travel for the purpose of attending seminars and conferences is subject to the basic allowance of US$1,500 per trip per person, with a max imum of two trips per annum. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira. Travelers are required to pay the equivalent in naira or the equivalent foreign exchange at the SFEM exchange rates. Hotels appointed as authorized buyers of foreign ex- change may buy foreign exchange from visitors to Nigeria and may convert the unspent naira balances of such visitors into foreign exchange any time, provided that 'The following items are exemp ted from the inspection requ iremen t: gold; precious stones; objects of art; explosives and pyro techn ic produc ts; ammun i t ion; imp lemen ts of war; live animals; f re sh, ch i l led, frozen, or tinned fru i ts and vegetables; scrap metals; household and personal effects, inc lud ing used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and refined petroleum produc ts. NIGERIA evidence of previous conversion into naira is adequately documented. However, reconversion of unspent naira balances by hotels is limited to US$100, or the equivalent per visitor for the duration of stay. These purchases may be made by the hotel only for visitors actually lodged at that hotel. Remittances abroad by expatriate residents of up to 50 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers subject to documentation require- ments. Final balance applications involving the transfer of accumulated savings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank, that the expatriate concerned has not previously been granted his final balance en t i t lemen t. The exportation of naira in excess of N 50 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or which have been used) in African cere- monies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of unref ined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector exports may be sold freely in the SFEM or retained in Domiciliary Accoun ts; all previous requirements for surrender to the Central Bank have been abolished. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes on ly, declaration of foreign currency imports of the equivalent of US$5,000 and above, is required. However, where the traveler may wish to re- export part or all of the foreign currency brought in the form of bank notes and trave ler's checks, he must declare the total amount brought in even if it is less than US$5,000. The importation of naira is prohibited beyond the maxi- mum N 50 allowance to residents for settlement of expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad may be au- thorized if they are judged not to be destabilizing to the SFEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the M in is try of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of fund s, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, pro- vided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Pro- motion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Reinvestment of re- mittable dividends is allowed w i thout the requirement of matching capital import. However, the granting of "ap- proved status" for such inves tment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved inves tment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, ren ts, or bank credit or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign-owned com- panies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital inves tmen t, the Industrial Development and Coordinating Committee (IDCC) deals with all matters relating to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1977. Applica- tions for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital inves tment made through SFEM are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and ap- proved subject to documentation requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the SFEM. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for 378 numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of du ty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement September 29. A dual exchange market was established. Imports and Import Payments January 1. As part of the budget for 1986, it was announced that a 30 percent levy would be imposed on all imports in addition to all existing duties. September 29. Import licensing and the 30 percent import surcharge were abolished. A revised structure of tariffs was put into place, and it is to be reviewed in light of the experience with the new structure of prices arising from the introduction of the second-tier foreign exchange market and other measures, including the elimination of factory gate price controls. The import prohibition list was reduced from 72 items to 16 items. The procedures for import duties and tariffs, including import du ty pre- payments, remained unchanged, pending an overhaul of customs and related arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A number of export-promotion measures were announced, including a provision for non-oil ex- porters to retain 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings and the lifting of the ban on food exports. September 29. Export bans and duties were eliminated. Most of the export licensing requ iremen ts were also eliminated. Boards which had been responsible for the sale abroad of cocoa, cotton, g roundnu ts, and palm kernels were e l im ina ted. Exporters of non-oil products were permitted to retain the fu ll amount of the proceeds, subject to their repatriation and payment into Domiciliary Accounts or sale in the SFEM. Capital January 1. Re inves tment of remittable dividends was allowed without the requirement of matching capital import. However, the granting of "approved status" for such inves tment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 14 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange rate is man- aged so as to allow only limited fluctuations (± 2.25 percent) around the benchmark for the effective value. The weights of the index are, in principle, based on Norway's exports of processed goods to each of the countries whose currencies are included, taking also into account competitive relations with third countries. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is quoted daily, together with those of 18 other currencies, on the basis of the market rates. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar1 were NKr 7.3890 and NKr 7.4110, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward trans- actions with nonbank residents by authorized banks and foreign exchange brokers must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Customs in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Most current payments are exempt from ex- change control, provided that they are made through authorized banks in accordance with the currency pre- scriptions issued by the Bank of Norway. Authority to conduct most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks, which report such payments to the Bank of Norway. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other 'Quotation on the Foreign Exchange at noon. Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents, subject to the regulations on such accounts (see section on Capital, below).2 Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license, but all imports from South Africa are subject to licensing. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licen- sing for surveillance purposes. Following Norway's accession to the current Multi-Fiber Agreement on July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the GATT are being phased out. In this connection, Norway has concluded bilateral agreements with 16 textile suppliers. Besides textile products, there are licensing requirements for a few industrial import items from Japan and the Republic of Korea, and for certain additional products from Taiwan.t With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels may be imported freely, but special per- mission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equip- ment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Tele- communications. The import of a small number of com- modities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, fishing gear made of textile materials, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Trade credits may be extended for export and import financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. However, a license is required if such financing is arranged through a foreign or domestic financial institution, al- though banks may extend short-term bill of exchange credits freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortiza- 2Residents with both income and expenditures in foreign currencies may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without a license from the Bank of Norway. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY tion, may be made free ly. There are no limits on the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amoun ts. Each person leaving Norway may take up to NKr 5,000 in Norwegian bank notes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign bank notes brought into the coun try by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any coun try are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, NKr 1,000. If payment is not received within 12 mon ths of delivery, a license from the Bank of Norway is required. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency and in other means of paymen t. Capital Inward transfers of capital and inves tmen ts in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. The regulation of inward direct inves tment in connection with transfers of share capital is limited to a reporting system. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of inves tmen ts made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Paymen ts for contrac- tual amortization are also permitted free ly. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase nonquoted as well as quoted shares w i th in the limit of the Concession Acts and the respective companies' Articles of Association. However, permission for foreigners to purchase Norwegian bonds (within specified limits) has been revoked. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emi- grants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' deb ts, may be made free ly. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- men ts, have to be surrendered. Norwegian shipowners, insurance companies, and brokers may open accounts with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of Norway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts if their export receipts exceed 50 percent of total sales. Applications for capital transfers to make direct in- vestments abroad are treated liberally. Residents are allowed to purchase quoted and nonquoted foreign shares. However, purchase of nonquoted shares requires a li- cense. Norwegian citizens are allowed to buy foreign bonds within a limit of NKr 1 million a person and 380 NKr 5 million a firm. Residents may, upon application, transfer capital abroad to purchase real estate for recre- ational purposes. There are no nom inal limits on authorized banks' borrowing abroad, but authorized banks have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency at the end of the day w i th in margins varying between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the Ministry of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. All other inward transfers of capital by nonbank residents require approval by the Bank of Norway. Incurring or providing guarantee obligations abroad also requires ap- proval by the Bank of Norway. With the exception of loans to the petroleum sector, shipping, and shipyards, new foreign borrowing by Norwegian commercial enter- prises must be w i th in overall limits specified for 1987 as the equivalent of NKr 7.5 billion for med ium- and long- term loans; the level of short-term loans during 1987 should not exceed the ou ts tand ing amount at the end of 1986 by more than NKr 2.5 billion. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewe l ry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coin are subject to the regular value- added tax at a rate of 20 percen t. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement May 72. The Norwegian Government devalued the krone by changing the central value of the Norwegian exchange rate index from 100 to 112 w i th a margin of 2.25 percent on either side of the central value. The change in the central value of the exchange rate index represented a devaluation of the krone of about 10.7 percent. Imports and Import Payments July 21. New regulations for trade credits were adopted. In general, credit may be extended to finance imports w i thout a license from the Bank of Norway if the maturity is less than five years; however, a license is required if the financing is in a foreign currency or if the financing of capital imports has a ma tur i ty of between one and five years. Exports and Export Proceeds July 21. New regulations were issued concerning licen- sing requirements for financing of exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital A , c ^ .* • r •* *• • A - August 5. Certain limitations were imposed on resi- dents' purchases of nonquoted investment funds and equities. October 3. Opening of krone accounts by nonresidents was limited to authorized foreign exchange banks. to to NORWAY 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.6008. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1986 these rates were RO 1 - US$2.60417 and RO 1 = US$2.59740, respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. In addition, com- panies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing such products as long as the domestic refinery is deemed by Oman to be producing the specified products in quantities that satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports; exchange for payments abroad for authorized imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no re- quirements attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Inves tment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in June 1983, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ventures are offered a five- year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions; the Oman Develop- ment Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in petro- leum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; and as- sistance in preinvestment research can also be given. Foreign investment is not permitted in trade and services, and foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufacturing projects. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resident and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 25. The exchange rate of the rial Omani was adjusted from RO 1 = US$2.89524 to RO 1 = US$2.6008, representing a devaluation of 10.2 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The general tariff rate was raised from 4 percent to 5 percent. Approximately one half of imports are subject to this general tariff and the other half is either exempt from duty or subject to higher rates. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1986] Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the in terven t ion currency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at wh ich it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 31, 1986 the State Bank 's buy ing and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 17.2500 and PRs 17.2656, respec t ive ly, per US$1. All transactions w i th the public in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers and money chan- gers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In calculating spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.0625 percent is provided on either side of the mean rate based on the previous day 's closing buy ing and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York marke t. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requ iremen ts of specified currencies in foreign ex- change markets abroad. They may also cover the ir per- mitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, w i th their agents in the countries con- cerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. Upon payment of an annual fee of 3 percent on the principal amount outstanding, the exchange risk on private foreign currency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as foreign currency loans contracted on or after May 16, 1982 under the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) scheme, is cov- ered by the State Bank under the gove rnmen t 's scheme for exchange risk cover. However, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans is allowed upon payment of a fee based on the d ifference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the interest rate payable on the loan. Since August 1, 1985, in teres t-bear ing certificates called Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificates (FEBC) can be purchased in foreign exchange by foreigners and Pakis- tanis. Denominated in Pakistan rupees, FEBCs can be freely brought into and taken out of the coun t ry, and can be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in foreign exchange at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the encashment. These certificates are traded on the stock exchange and are intended to provide a vehicle for residents freely to under take current and capital trans- actions. On December 31, 1986 the certificates were quoted at a premium of 7.25 percent. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated au thor i ty to a number of banks and financial in s t i tu t ions to deal in all foreign currenc ies, to supervise surrender requ i remen t s, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in l im i ts pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and perm i ts, as well as the imp lemen ta t ion of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through var ious state-trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, L td. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, L td. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and paymen ts abroad must be ef- fected th rough an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any conver t ib le currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonres ident rupee bank accounts. Certain se t t lemen ts w i th specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all o ther coun tr ies must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonres ident bank account of the coun t ry of the benef ic iary or of the coun t ry of origin or sh ipment of goods. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled th rough special accounts in inconve r t ib le curren- cies. Trade in specified commod i t ies w i th Bulgaria, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. is settled th rough special nonconver t ib le accounts. The special accounts with Bul- garia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. are main- tained in nonconver t ib le U .S. dollars, and the special account w i th the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is denominated in deu tsche mark. Paymen ts to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Tu rkey relating to visible trade (exc lud ing border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing ac- coun ts maintained by the respective central banks in U .S. dollars. Paymen ts to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion other than the Islamic Republic of Iran ( i .e ., Bangladesh, Bu rma, Ind ia, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transac t ions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and their produc ts) are effected through the Asian Clearing Un ion in Asian Monetary Un i ts or in the domestic currency of one of the member coun tr ies invo lved in such transac- tions. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with A fghan is tan, and se t t lemen ts are made in Pakistan rupees or in A fghan cu r rency. Payments be tween Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies resi- dent outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident ac- counts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonres- ident accounts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened w i th funds received from abroad through bank ing channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by author- ized banks w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personne l, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nation- als, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open foreign currency accounts may open foreign currency accounts w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make paymen ts in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds three years; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the foreign currency accounts facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from banks operating abroad, including financial ins t i tu t ions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least US$10 million (or equ iva lent in other currencies), for a ma tu r i ty period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments The 1986/87 Import Policy Order (IPO) outlines the regulations applicable to imports. The IPO divides imports into two categories: prohibited (negative list) imports and restricted imports. All items which do not appear either on the negative list or restricted list are freely importable. The negative list in principle consists of items banned for religious, security, or luxu ry consumption reasons; capital and consumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; and intermediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and consumer goods banned for protective reasons.2 The restricted list of imports consists of seven categories: (1) 36 items or categories of goods importable only by the public sector; (2) 21 i tems or categories of goods importable only by industrial con- 1 Different rules apply to nonres ident rupee accounts of ind iv idu a l s, firms, or compan ies, on the one hand, and to non res ident rupee accoun ts of banks, on the o ther hand. 2Some categories of cu r r en t ly proh ib i ted impor ts fa ll ou ts ide of these categories ( i .e ., some prohibited i tems are not produced in Pak is tan and they do not fit in to the category of goods banned for re l ig ious, secu r i ty, or luxu ry con sump t ion reasons). 384 sumers; (3) import requ i remen ts of 12 specific indus tr ies; (4) imports by actual users of 11 items or categories of goods for an amount exceeding PRs 5,000; (5) 28 items or categories of goods impor tab le, subject to specified requ iremen ts, such as a permit by a public sector agency or fu l f i l lment of technical specifications; (6) 20 items or categories importable only from specified sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U .S. P.L. 480 program; and (7) 5 specified consumer goods items subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports of some items on the negative list are perm i t ted und er certain circumstances, principally by export indus t r ies, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. All imports require a license, except goods imported by the Central Govern- ment for defense or other purposes, goods in t rans i t, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under a M in is t ry of Com- merce No t if ica t ion. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports.3 Genera l ly, licenses remain valid for 12 mon ths, but when mach inery is specifically manufac tured, licenses can be obtained with a validity period of up to 24 mon ths. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 2 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other supple- men tary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are proh ib i ted, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import from India 42 specified items either directly or through the TCP. Imports of other nonprohi- bited goods from Ind ia (including goods of Ind ian origin from a third coun try) are allowed on ly for the public sector. (2) Dates may be imported on ly from Iraq. (3) Special provisions exist for the importation by export indus tr ies of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. Mach inery on the negative list may also be imported by nonexporting indus tr ies up to specified amoun ts. (4) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (5) The max imum c. & f. values for which licenses for the import of machinery and mill work can be issued against various sources of financing to d i f fe rent categories are (a) up to PRs 40 million, for commercial importers, subject to value restrictions of PRs 0.5 million a un it of mach inery or spares; (b) up to PRs 50 million, for new un i ts invo lv ing a total capital outlay of PRs 300 million and not falling w i th in the specified list of indus t r ies (i .e ., those wh ich are permitted to be set up w i thout sanction of any gove rnment agency); (c) up to PRs 2.5 m i l l ion, for new un i ts not covered by (b) above; (d) up to PRs 30 m i l l ion, for expans ion of existing un i ts not falling w i th in the specified list of indus t r ies; (e) up to ^L i c en s ing re s t r ic t ions a re app l icab le to arms and amm u n i t i o n, m i lk p roduc ts, and o v a l t i n e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PRs 2.5 million, for expansion of existing un i ts not covered by (d) above; and (f) from PRs 5 million to PRs 20 million, for balancing, modernization, and replacement of a un i t, depending on the type and capacity of the mach inery. Procurement of plant and equ ipment of a higher value is effected by the f inanc ing ins t i tu t ions, w i th the approval of the M in is try of Indus t ry. Except for imports of books, journa ls, periodicals, and magazines, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened w i th in 60 days after registration of the license with the State Bank of Pakistan for private and public sector imports (and w i th in 30 days for food imports), or in the case of imports under barter agree- men ts, w i th in such period as may be specified in related official Public Notices. For imports under tied loans or credits, which require that the contract be approved by the Economic Affairs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both private and pub l ic sector imports remain valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days after final approval of the contract. Oil companies and ref iner ies are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum produc ts w i th in the va l id i ty period of the unde r ly ing license. Remittances are not norma l ly permitted before shipping documen ts are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufac- turers, the State Bank may authorize advance paymen ts for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance rem i t tances, w i thout prior ap- proval of the State Bank, for imports of books, magazines, and journa ls by commercial importers. No paymen ts are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Africa. W i th specified exceptions,4 the State Bank requires banks to take m in- imum margins against letters of credit for certain imports, ranging from 25 percent to 35 percent. A 10 percent import surcharge is levied on the c . i . f. value of imports, excluding certain items like med ic ine, books, and du ty - f ree baggage. However, the surcharge is limited to 5 percent for imported kerosene oil, light diesel by the agricultural sector, and fuel oil by the industrial sector. A 5 percent surcharge is also levied on imported raw materials, but the proceeds are rebated if the imported raw materials are used for manufac tur ing of exports. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Africa. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance w i th the regulations. Certain rem i t- tances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by PAKISTAN Pakistani nationals to the ir families abroad require special authorization. Paymen ts for inv is ib les connected w i th imports are generally given the same trea tment as that accorded to the unde r ly ing trade transaction. Except w i th respect to certain aid sh ipmen ts, transport insurance must be taken out w i th insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max imum of 5 percent of the invoice va lue, except for co t ton, rice, and cemen t, for which separate regulations apply, and for engineering goods for which the max imum is 10 percent. The remittance of d iv idends declared out of current prof i ts is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the inves tment was made w i th the Gove rnmen t 's approval. W i th the approval of the State Bank, prof i ts of branches of foreign companies and banks may be rem i t ted to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a b ranch 's prof it and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Au thor ized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to US$1,000 a person every two years for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;5 this allocation can be used in ins ta l lmen ts. In addition to this quota each traveler is allowed US$50 a trip. Additional exchange for business travel, medical t rea tmen t, educa- tion, and sponsored cu l tural trips may be granted on an ind iv idual basis. S tudent maintenance allowances for s tudy abroad range from US$4,199 to US$6,843, depend- ing on region. Student allowances can be drawn through authorized dealers w i thout requiring State Bank approval. Allowances for professional training abroad range from US$750 a mon th for jun ior executives to US$1,200 a mon th for senior execu t ives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods w i th annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are en t i t led to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel t icke ts and travel exchange of US$150 a day up to US$4,500 for each bus iness trip. Foreigners leaving Pakistan w i th in six mon ths from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amoun ts they brought in ( inc lud ing foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a max imum of US$2,000 a fam i ly) and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for A fghan is tan may take out any amount of Afghan cu r rency. Nationals working abroad who v is it Pakistan may retain for one year the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan w i th in one year from the date of arrival, they may take with them the un spent balance of foreign exchange (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a max imum of US$2,000 a family). 4The list consists mos t ly of raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods. 5The allowances for travel to Ind ia and Bangladesh are less; there is no such a l lowance for t ravel to A fgh an i s t an. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Larger amounts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on en try. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and traveler's checks sold by authorized banks under general authority delegated to them or under permission issued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or US$750 a mon th, whichever is higher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.6 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or m in imum export prices (such as hand-knotted carpets up to 96 knots and certain varieties of onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation has a monopoly over exports of cotton although private exporters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the Rice Export Corporation (exports of rice are allowed by the private sector under brand names in packings of ten); and cement through the State Cement Corporation. Chemical fertilizers can be exported also by the private sector un i ts. Goods consigned to India can be exported only by public sector agencies. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed period of time except for goods manufactured in the export pro- cessing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four mon ths of ship- men t, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items7 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,8 or, alternatively, on the basis of the previous Prohibited exports inc lude ferrous and non fe r rous metals (exc lud ing iron and steel manufac tured goods), ed ib le oils, grains, dairy p roduc ts, animal fa ts, beef, mu t ton, t imbe r, certain hides and sk ins, pu lses and beans, wet blue leather made from cowhides and ca lfh ides, wheat bran, wheat s traw, and charcoal. 7The exceptions are: raw cotton; cotton ya rn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mu t ton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feeds tu ff for animals; all grains inc lud ing grain flour; stone, sand, and g rave l; waste and scrap of all k inds; fertilizer crude; oilseeds, nu t s, and ke rne ls; jewe l ry exported under the En t rus tment Scheme; live animals; hides and sk ins; wet blue leather; inorganic e lemen ts, oxides, etc .; crude minerals; works of art and an t iques; all metals; fur sk ins; and wood in rough or squared form. 8Under specified conditions authorized dealers may grant concessional finance w i thout State Bank approval and w i thout an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. 386 year's export performance of the exporter as advance limit on a revo lv ing basis under Part II of the scheme. A rebate of 55 percent is available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of goods manufac tured in Pakistan. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, semi-tanned hides and sk ins, crushed bones, and onyx blocks. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan cu r rency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invis- ibles must be surrendered w i th in three mon ths. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Inves tmen ts in Pakistan by nonres iden ts are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Gove rnment follows a liberal policy toward foreign en trepreneurs, who, w i th the approval of the Governmen t, may start any indus try in the private sector w i thout conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expend i ture will ordinarily be met from local equ i ty capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved indus tr ies established after Septem- ber 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any t ime to the extent of the original inves tmen t, and current prof i ts may be transferred w i thout restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as inves tment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital inves tment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as inves tment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved inves tment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the inves tment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their inves tmen ts in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions can be repatriated at any t ime, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign secu- rities by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the na t iona l i ty of the person concerned and the coun try to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonres iden ts for purposes of t rans fer of securities. Gen- eral permission has been given in connection w i th the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, in favor of nonres iden ts, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and inve s tment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and re tu rn. Pakistan securities held by non res iden ts may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those appli- cable to the transferor. A general perm iss ion has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resi- dent in Pakistan to make inves tmen ts in un i ts of the National Inve s tment Trus t, subject to certain s t ipu la t ions. General permission has been granted to pub l ic limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to transfer shares to non res ident Pakistanis provided: (1) payment is made by rem i t tance of fore ign currency from abroad; (2) the shares are registered at the address in Pakistan of the buy e r; and (3) the buyer gives an unde r tak ing that he will not apply for rem i t tance of d iv idend or sale proceeds of the share. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of non res ident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits w i th banks. Foreign banks func t ion ing in Pakistan can unde rw r i te share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan in association w i th the Inves tment Corporation of Pakistan subject to the stipulation that the total va lue of shares so underwritten by them in each issue does not exceed 10 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription. The foreign banks may also unde rw r i te public issues of participation term cer t if ica tes, term fi- nance certificates, and modaraba certificates w i thout any restrictions, subject to the stipulation that where terms and conditions of issue of such securities grant the option to the holders to convert the securities in to ordinary shares, the restriction of 10 percent of the total capital offered to the general public would also apply. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resident abroad to invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by rem i t tance of foreign exchange or by deb i t ing the ir foreign currency accounts in Pak is tan; d iv idends or in- terest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, provided that these securities were held for no less than one year. Pakistani nationals requ ire the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. PAKISTAN Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is normally not granted. However, under a special scheme, jewelry manu fac tu re rs are allowed to import gold for the purpose of manu fac tu r ing jewe lry for export. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not perm i t ted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whe ther in or outside Pakistan. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement June 24. The exchange risk coverage facility, introduced in 1984, covering contracts concluded on or after May 16, 1982, was extended to include foreign currency loans contracted by the private sector under the PA YE scheme. Upon payment of a 3 percent per a n n um fee, the exchange risk on these loans is covered by the State Bank under the Gov e rnm en t 's scheme for exchange risk cover. August 4. The eligibility of borrowers for the exchange risk coverage fac i l i ty, wh ich was ex tended on June 24 to include loans contracted under the PA YE scheme, was clarified to exclude fresh loans contracted to prepay earlier loans that did not qua l i fy for the fac i l i ty. September 28. Eligibility of borrowers for the exchange risk coverage fac i l i ty, wh ich was extended on June 24 to include loans contracted under the PAYE scheme, was ex tended fu r th e r. P rev ious ly, only PAYE contracts signed after May 29, 1986 were eligible. Coverage was extended to PAYE loans contracted between May 16, 1982 and May 29, 1986. Coverage would commence and coverage fees would be incurred from the date on which the borrower requested coverage. November 18. Forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign cu r rency loans was allowed upon payment of a fee based on the d ifference be tween the interest rate in Pakistan and the rate of interest on the loan. Prescription of Currency January 4. The va l id i ty of the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreement (Barter No. 15), dated April 16, 1983, was ex tended to June 30, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1986 for completing sh ipmen ts. January 13. The va l id i ty of the Pak is tan-U .S .S .R. Barter Agreemen t, dated May 15, 1985 (Barter No. 21), was ex tended to June 30, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to December 31, 1986 for completing sh ipmen ts. February I. The va l id i ty of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Ag reemen t, dated April 11, 1984 (Barter No. 14), was ex tended to March 31, 1986 for opening letters of credit, provided sh ipmen ts are completed by June 30, 1986. March 2. The va l id i ty of the Pakistan-People's Republic of Ch ina Barter Agreemen t, dated Ju ly 12, 1984 (Barter No. 13), was extended to Ju ly 12, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to October 12,1986 for completing shipments. April 21. The validity of the Pakistan-Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea Barter Agreement, dated February 6, 1983 (Barter No. 9), was extended to 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN February 6, 1987 for opening letters of credit and to May 6, 1987 for completing shipments. May 28. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Agreemen t, dated May 22, 1985 (Barter No. 15), was extended to September 30, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to December 31,1986 for completing sh ipmen ts. June 2. The validity of the Pakistan-Czechoslovakia Barter Agreemen t, dated November 21, 1984 (Barter No. 21), was extended to December 31, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1987 for completing shipments. July 7. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreemen t, dated April 16, 1983 (Barter No. 15), was extended to December 31, 1986 for open ing letters of credit and to March 31, 1987 for completing sh ipmen ts. July 17. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Commodity Exchange Arrangement No. 4, dated October 22, 1974, was extended to December 31, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1987 for completing sh ipmen ts. August 27. The validity of the Pak is tan-Hungary Barter Agreement, dated March 19, 1982, was extended to March 19, 1987 for opening letters of credit and to June 19, 1987 for completing sh ipmen ts. August 27. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Re- public of China Barter Agreemen t, dated Ju ly 12, 1984 (Barter No. 13), was extended to September 30, 1986 for opening letters of credit and to December 31, 1986 for completing sh ipmen ts. October 18. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Agreement, dated May 22, 1985 (Barter No. 15), was extended to December 31, 1986 for opening of letters of credit and to March 31, 1987 for completing sh ipmen ts. December 23. The va l id i ty of the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreement, dated April 16, 1983 (Barter No. 15), was extended to June 30, 1987 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1987 for completing sh ipmen ts. Imports and Import Payments February 4. The m in imum margin requ i rement on letters of credit for the importation of sugar was removed. April 19. Authorized dealers were prohibited from extending or renewing letters of credit for sugar imports. They were also prohibited from opening such letters on a usance basis. May 29. The import du ty on imports of plant and machinery not produced domestically, inc lud ing textile, construction, and printing mach inery, was reduced from 40 percent to 20 percent. May 29. The import du ty on industrial raw materials, such as copper ingots, a lum inum, and other minerals, was reduced from 40 percent to 20 percen t. May 29. The structure of tariff rates was simplified and the number of classifications reduced from 17 to 10, two of which would be applicable only to luxu ry goods, primarily automobiles and aircraft. Aside from the latter two, which were set at 225 and 450 percent, the new classifications range from 10 to 150 percent. May 31. Private sector importers receiving deferred payment terms on imports under certain U.S. AID loans 388 were required to deposit accruing in terest w i th the State Bank on a semiannual basis. June 30. The following changes to the Import Policy Order 1985 were announced: (1) imports of products and by-products of pigs, hogs, boar, and swine were added to the prohibited list; (2) certain electronic products that had been on the nega t ive list were placed on the restricted list and became importable by the concerned public sector units; and (3) a limited number of items were added to the list of i tems importable subject to specific conditions and to the list of items impor tab le by indus tr ial consumers. The max imum c. & f. value of PRs 5 million for wh ich licenses for the import of equ ipment for ba lanc ing, mod- ern iza t ion, and replacement could be issued to the textile indus t ry was replaced by ceilings ranging from PRs 5 million to PRs 20 m i l l ion, depend ing on the type and capacity of the mach ine ry. A new requ i rement was added that the first import license for this purpose could be issued only after three years of operation of the plant in ques t ion. Payments for Invisibles January 9 and 29. Detailed regulations were issued for processing Hadj applications by Pakistani pilgrims under the Sponsorship Scheme for Hadj. The regulations spec- ified tha t, in ter alia, travel costs had to be funded through specified rem i t tances from sponsors abroad. This scheme is in addition to that providing travel costs from domestic sources for a l im i ted number of pilgrims. November 22. Au tho r ized dealers were permitted to issue trave ler's checks in addition to demand draf ts, and telegraphic or mail transfers against encashment of foreign exchange bearer certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds January 22. Concessional export finance was ex tended to exports of precious and semiprecious stones and pearls. May 29. The compensa tory export rebate scheme was abolished. Provisions were made that expor ts made after this date in accordance w i th the de l ivery schedule ind i- cated in the le t ters of credit that had been established before th is date and contracted in respect of cotton cloth and bags registered w i th the export promotion bureau before May 5, 1986 would remain eligible for the rebate; and that exports made up to September 30, 1986 against other firm contracts registered with a bank or trade association before May 29, 1986 would also remain eligible for the rebate. (On Ju ly 24, exports made after September 30, 1986 in accordance with the delivery schedule ind i- cated in the contracts made w i th state-owned enterprises in the socialist countries were also made eligible for payment of compensatory reba te .) June 5. Countertrade agreements were signed between the TCP and four pr iva te, foreign trading companies. Imports to Pakistan under these arrangements may be either private or public sector imports of goods that are eligible for import licenses. Exports from Pakistan under these arrangements mu st be from a list of specified agricultural and manufac tured produc ts. Ceilings were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution established in U.S. dollars for the max imum amounts of annual exports in each category with a total annual limit of US$50 million of exports and an equivalent amount of imports for each agreement. The Pakistan National Ship- ping Corporation must be granted the right of first refusal for export shipments. June 17. The revolving refinance limits assigned to banks under the Export Finance Scheme for 1985/86 were carried over beyond June 30, 1986 pending the fixing of new limits for 1986/87. Limits assigned to banks under Part II of the Export Finance Scheme for 1985/86 (which were fixed on the basis of export earnings in 1984/85) were carried over up to August 31, 1986, pending the fixing of new limits for 1986/87. Capital May 7. Foreign banks operating in Pakistan that are already authorized to underwrite share issues of compa- PAKISTAN nies incorporated in Pakistan were permitted to under- write term certificates, term finance certificates, and modaraba certificates, in association with the Inves tment Corporation of Pakistan. The total value of issues which foreign banks can underwrite cannot, however, exceed 10 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription. November 22. General permission was granted to public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to transfer shares to nonresident Pakistanis, provided (1) payment is made by remittance of foreign currency from abroad; (2) the shares are registered at the Pakistan address of the buyer; and (3) the buyer gives an undertaking that he will not apply for remittance of dividend of sale proceeds of the share. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar at B 1 - US$1. The U .S. dollar is legal tender and circulates free ly in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by balboa coins and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currenc ies based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in marke ts abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946 Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Off ice, a sem iau tonomous ins t i tu t ion of the Panamanian Gove rnmen t. The Price Regu la t ion Office is responsible for the imp lemen ta t ion of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete w i th national pro- duction and on certain exports. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry determines the import quotas for commod- ities listed in trade agreements; the M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock Deve lopmen t, jo in t ly w i th the Price Reg- ulation Off ice, de term ines the import quo tas for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of cu r rency requ i remen t s. Imports and Import Payments Import quotas are maintained on some 20 p roduc ts, including oil, t imbe r, salt, fishmeal, m i lk, and sugar. Some of these are not licensed. Import l icens ing applies to some products subject to quotas and to impor ts of various foods tu f fs. O ther imports are free. Impor ts by the pub l ic sector, howeve r, are subject to special requ i remen ts. Paymen ts abroad may be made f ree ly. In addition to import d u t y, a tax of 7.5 percent of the f .o .b. value is levied on pr iva te sector impor ts of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical prod- ucts and foods tu f fs, for which the rate is 2.5 percent and 3.5 percen t, respec t ive ly; books are exemp t. Most imports are also sub ject to a tax of 5 percent calculated on the sum of the c . i .f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemp t ions are fu e l s, lub r ican ts, and related produc ts, as well as foods tu f fs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical produc ts, and imports in to the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, s i lver, p l a t inum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coconuts, 390 scrap me ta ls, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubbe r. Expor ts of certain foods tu f fs, firearms, and ammun i t ion are proh ib i ted. Certain non trad i t ional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds from inv is ib les are not res tr ic ted. A t ravel tax of 4 percent is lev ied on air and sea t icke ts bought in Panama or on such t icke ts purchased for travelers starting the ir trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on capital rece ip ts or paymen ts by res iden ts or non res iden ts. A s ign i f icant numb er of fore ign-con tro l led banks are au thor ized to conduct bus iness on ly w i th non res iden ts. Gold Panama has issued two commemora t ive gold coins w i th face va lues of B 100 and B 500, wh ich are legal tender but do not c i rcu la te. Res iden ts may free ly hold gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any fo rm w i th res iden ts or non res iden ts, at home and abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by res iden ts other than the mone tary au tho r i t ies; import licenses are issued f ree ly by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t r y, and export licenses are granted by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Treasury. Expo r ts of unwo rk ed gold produced in Panama are sub ject to an export du ty of 1 percent ad va lorem, and exports of gold coin (o ther than U .S. co ins, wh ich are ex emp t) are subject to a d u ty of 0.5 pe rcen t. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 1. Under the new Indus t r ial Incen t ives Law, the max imum nom inal tariff rates for goods already manu fac tu red in Panama are to be reduced to 60 percent over a period of five years beg inn ing in August 1986. At the beg inn ing of 1986, nominal tariff rates ranged up to 385 pe rcen t, w i th an even broader range of effec t ive protection. Ten out of 19 major import categories had max imum tar iff levels in excess of 100 percen t. The only exceptions to the new m ax imum tariff rates are those app ly ing to 18 product categories ( food s tu f f s, beverages, and wood produc ts), which will also have their max imum tariff rates reduced to 90 percent over a five-year period. The max imum nom inal tariff pro tec t ion on new goods produced locally will be limited to 20 percen t, except for agroindustrial products that will be eligible for up to 30 percent tariff rates in order to compensate for the effect of protection on input costs. The new law also has ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution established a m in imum nominal tariff of 3 percent on all imported inpu ts and imported capital goods. Under the new regime, industries that become part of an industrial registry are exempted from import du t ies on raw materials until 1990. May 22 and June 10. Tariffs on certain agricultural and manufactured products were modified or eliminated. July 29. It was announced that tariffs on industrial and agroindustrial products would be reduced over a five- year period. August 5. Quotas regulating imports of products sup- ported by the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), namely maize, sorghum, onions, beans and lentils, as well as imports of certain other commodities, were re- placed by specific duties. These duties are to be reduced gradually to bring prices closer to international levels. PANAMA 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major trading partners. On December 31,1986 the official buy ing and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.0412 and US$1.0396, respectively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a max- imum spread of 2 percent between buy ing and selling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the M in is try of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed au- thorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments, which are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea must be met by payments in foreign currency .1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in kina from an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such ac- counts may be withdrawn without fu r ther formality. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for health, security, and protective reasons. Certain import items, particularly foods tu f fs, are subject to quotas for 'Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the k ina. 392 reasons of domestic protection; quotas are adjusted quar- terly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for three-year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with purchases of domestically produced goods. There are no import licensing requ iremen ts. Authorized dealers have powers to approve most transactions without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Norma l ly, import paymen ts should be settled within 90 days of the arrival of the goods in the coun t ry; approval for payment on extended credit terms is usually given for items such as capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most paymen ts for invis- ibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies wr i t ten after December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not permitted. Applications for foreign exchange for foreign travel in excess of the equivalent of K 4,000 an adult and K 1,500 a minor a year for tourist travel and K 2,000 for each business trip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out free ly. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency which they brought in and recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods w i thout exchange control formality on condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six mon ths of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general au thor i ty, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No au thor i ty is needed for certain categories of goods, in- cluding sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Valuation) Act. Special provi- sions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood chips). Specified commodities are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are nor- mally allowed; advance comm i tmen ts, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New investment out- side Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. When an inves tment is for portfolio reasons, the amount that may be inves ted in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 a person. Inves tment may only be in the form of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by permanent residents .2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings w i thout l im i t. Prior clearance from the tax authorities may be required for these transactions. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign inves tment in Papua New PAPUA NEW GUINEA Guinea. In some cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign inves tmen ts other than those in banking and insurance are also subject to approval by the National Inves tment and Development Au thor i ty. Approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebtedness, so that the right to receive a payment may be conferred on a nonresident. Offshore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Guinea may not exceed the debt/equity ratio of 3:1. Commercial banks may under take offshore borrowing for on-lending to exporters, provided that no assumption of exchange risk is invo lved. Gold Under the Central Bank ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. Changes During 1986 2Foreign securities are defined in the Cen tral Bank ing Act as in c lud ing deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guaranf. The exchange arrangement consists of five d ifferent ex- change rates, four of which are fixed by the Central Bank of Paraguay, while the fifth, which is operated by com- mercial banks and exchange houses, fluctuates free ly. An exchange rate of G 240 per US$1 applies to imports of goods and services by three public enterprises (ANDE, CORPOSANA, and FLOMERES) and to the public sector's external debt service paymen ts. An exchange rate of G 320 per US$1 applies to disbursements of external loans to the public sector.1 A rate of G 400 per US$1 applies to imports of petroleum and petroleum der iva t ives, the Central Administration's imports of goods and serv- ices, and the imports of other public enterprises not listed above. A rate of G 550 per US$1 applies to all export proceeds and to imports of agricultural inpu ts. All other transactions ( i .e ., most non-oil import paymen ts, profit remittances, and private service paymen ts) are channeled through the free exchange market. On December 31, 1986 the rate prevailing in this market was around G 600 per US$1. A tax of 1.5 percent is levied on purchases and sales of foreign exchange in the official market, except for transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats, meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Investment Law No. 550/ 75. A fee of 2 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for imports. In addition, banks charge a com- mission of 2 percent on all sales of foreign exchange and receive a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Central Bank charges a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign exchange to the commercial banks that are authorized to operate in the exchange market. Additional selling rates result from the application of an 8 percent tax on the c.i.f. value of a wide range of consumer goods imported from countries that are not members of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); a 10 percent tax on outward remittances of profits and dividends; and a 30 percent tax on outward remittances of interest, royalties, rent, honoraria, com- missions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. For interest payments on foreign loans contracted by national banks, the tax is applied only to the spread if floating-rate loans are involved and to 6.5 percent of interest on fixed-rate loans. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized commer- cial banks are required to transfer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts at the four controlled exchange rates to the Central Bank, and are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. The Central Bank 'Effective January 1, 1987, these transactions are to take place at } 400 per U.S. dollar. 394 pays the authorized commercial banks a fee of 1 percent on foreign exchange purchases, and charges a fee of 1 percent on foreign exchange sales to them. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, together with the Superintendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transactions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned w i th in the framework of the multilateral clear- ing system of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four mon ths, but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authorization. These include: table wine in bu lk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products may only be made through the na- tional petroleum company, PETROPAR. Imports of wheat and wheat flour are made by the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. All importers are required to be registered at the Central Bank. All imports are subject to a m in imum financing term of 120 days. Commercial banks are in- structed not to establish letters of credit for importers unless these importers already have, from their own resources, the foreign exchange necessary to settle these external obligations. Surcharges calculated on the c.i.f. value are payable on most imports up to a maximum of 30 percent, depending on the customs specifications. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from surcharges: imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; imports for the Government; furn i ture acquired through inheritance; all imports exempted according to international treaties; and the accompanied baggage of international passengers or nationals returning to establish residence in Paraguay. Also exempted are agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports under Investment Law No. 550/75. Imports of investment goods and of new material for export industries are eligible for exemption on a case-by-case basis. Com- modities originating from neighboring countries are sub- ject to a lower 10 percent surcharge on the c.i.f. value; this applies to foods tuffs, textiles, footwear, and other manufactured consumer goods. Alcohol-powered auto- mobiles, tractors, and motorcycles are subject to only 60 percent of the surcharge established for vehicles with equivalent specifications using other fuels. The 1985 tariff law temporarily prohibited a wide range of imports that would compete directly with Paraguayan products. Imports of a number of commodities that might jeopardize national security, public order, or public health are also prohibited. The Ministry of Finance is entitled to lift import restrictions on basic foodstuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic production shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank; such approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks at the official rates of exchange or at the rate prevailing in the parallel market. For certain commodities originating in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, and falling under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks; as long as proof of payment of the preferential tariff rates for these imports can be presented, payments may be effected with the importer's own foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are settled at the free market rate, with the exception of central government transactions, debt service paymen ts by the public sector, and transactions by three public enterprises (which are settled at G 400 per US$1, G 240 per US$1, and G 240 per US$1, respectively). Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, horses, wild animals, sheep, goats, pigs, rabbits, and cement. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas, and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. PARAGUAY All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 120 days after completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents; the foreign exchange rate must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange, and the proceeds must be surrendered at the exchange rate for the respective commodity. For cotton and soybean exports, the Central Bank establishes min- imum export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Ex- porters of these commodities are required to surrender, in the official exchange market, all the foreign exchange proceeds from their exports, which may not be less than the amount corresponding to the m in imum price set by the Central Bank. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. All exports are exempted from taxes or charges. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the binational entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. As a provisional measure the Central Bank limits annual sales of foreign exchange for the amortization of private sector debt to no more than 10 percent of the originally registered external liability. In addition, firms (including commercial banks) are prohibited, except when a substantial hardship can be shown, from repatriating retained earnings. Under Investment Law No. 550/75, the Government can grant special tax, customs, and import surcharge concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in the currency originally imported in installments of up to 20 percent from the third year after the beginning of production. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the free market rate. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 2. The exchange rates applicable to exports were simplified, resulting in a single rate of G 320 per U.S. dollar for all export proceeds up to the m in imum export price; previously, 50 percent of the m in imum export price was converted at G 240, and 50 percent, at G 400. Proceeds in excess of the m in imum export price are still to be converted at the free market rate. November 29. A number of changes were made in the exchange system: (1) the exchange rate for imports of goods and services by the Central Administration was changed from G 240 per U.S. dollar to G 400 per U.S. dollar; (2) the exchange rate for conversion of export proceeds was un if ied at G 550 per U.S. dollar; (3) the exchange rate for imports of agricultural inpu ts was set at G 550 per U.S. dollar; (4) the exchange rate for imports of goods and services by three public enterprises (ANDE, CORPOSANA, and FLOMERES) was set at G 240 per U .S. dollar; (5) the exchange rate for d isbursemen ts of external loans to the public sector was changed from G 160 per U.S. dollar to G 320 per U .S. dollar; and (6) the exchange rate for petroleum and petroleum derivative imports was changed from G 240 per U.S. dollar to G 400 per U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments March 79. A number of cotton and wool textile products were removed from the list of prohibited imports. Exports and Export Proceeds February 19. The minimum export price for cotton was reduced to US$657 per ton. February 28. The minimum export price for soybeans was reduced to US$80 per ton. June 20. The minimum export price for cotton was reduced to US$553 per ton. December 10. The minimum export price for cotton was increased to US$950 per ton, and the minimum export price for soybeans was increased to US$165 per ton. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Inti. The exchange system involves two exchange marke ts, the official market (MUC) and the financial exchange market (MF).1 Three exchange rates are associated with these markets: an official rate in the MUC, a controlled financial market rate, and a free financial market rate. In the MUC the exchange rate during 1986 for the inti was pegged to the U .S. dollar at I/. 13.95 = US$1 (average buying-selling rate).2 In the MF the Central Reserve Bank is committed to maintaining a premium over the official exchange rate (financial market exchange certificates rate); on Decem- ber 31, 1986 the average buying-selling rate in the con- trolled financial market was I/. 17.45 = US$1. In the free financial market, the exchange rate fluctuates freely in response to supply and demand. Exchange transactions in the MUC and in the controlled financial markets may be conducted in 14 currencies other than the U.S. dollar,3 on the basis of their exchange rates in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market. The surrender requirements of export proceeds to the MUC are as follows: 90 percent of oil exports and 65 percent of non-oil traditional exports, excluding those made by small- and medium-sized mines for which the requ irement is 45 percent. Nontraditional exporters are exempted from surrender requ iremen ts in the MUC and receive, in addition, a subsidy for the amount of foreign exchange they choose to convert into intis instead of holding financial market exchange certificates. The sub- sidy rates are the controlled financial rate plus 10 percent for most nontraditional exports, and plus 20 percent for cotton, wool, or alpaca clothing, canned fish or seafood, processed agricultural goods, and gold handicrafts. All import payments are transacted through the financial marke t, with the exception of those considered "essen- tial" by the authorities. Essential imports, including certain foods tuffs, pharmaceutical inputs for medicines, and inpu ts for the agricultural sector, are allowed through the MUC. Most service transactions are conducted in the financial market. Remittances of foreign exchange for selected service paymen ts were suspended for two years starting July 29, 1986. 'Ano ther exchange ma rke t, wh ich invo lves foreign currency accoun ts w i th the bank ing system and certificates of deposits denom ina ted in foreign currencies (CBME), cannot be used by res iden ts, because since August 1985 withdrawal from these accounts in the form of foreign currenc ies has been p roh ib i ted. W i thdrawa ls must be in in t i s, us ing an exchange rate equal to the selling MUC rate p lus 3 percent. 2On November 27, 1986 the Peruvian au thor i t ies announced that the inti would be depreciated in the official market and in the controlled financial market by 2 .2 percent per mon th vis-a-vis the U .S. dollar starting in Janua ry 1987. 3Belgian francs, Danish k rone r, deu tsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs for ex ternal trade t ransac t ions; for non trade t ransac t ions, opera t ions may also be effec ted in Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish k rone r, and Venezue lan bolivares. All exchange transactions must be conducted through the bank ing system or recognized exchange dealers. An exchange tax of 1 percent is levied on foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services, and on purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services; a tax of 1A of 1 percent is levied on issues of U.S. dollar certificates of deposit (CBME). The Central Reserve Bank sets its selling rate in the MUC and in the controlled financial market with a spread of 0.5 percent over the buy ing rate. Banks and dealers operating in the MUC and in the controlled financial market are required to limit the spread between their buying and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 percent (excluding the spread arising from the 1 percent exchange tax). Enterprises are not allowed to hold abroad their foreign exchange receipts. If repatriated, foreign exchange may be sold to the banking system or be deposited in foreign currency accounts within ten working days of receipt. Export proceeds, including loans for the prefinancing of exports, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues MUC exchange certificates and MF exchange certificates for the portion of the exchange required in each market. MUC certificates, which are denominated in U.S. dollars and have a ten-day validity, are held by the surrendering bank (or any other bank to which they may be subsequently assigned) for use by the exporter for his own permitted foreign exchange payments and transfers through the MUC or for conversion into intis at the MUC rate of the day. If not so used within their ma tur i ty, the MUC certificates are canceled, and the corresponding amount in intis is credited to the account of the bank at the buy ing rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day, m inus a discount of 2 percent. In the same way the MF exchange certificates may be used by the exporter for his own authorized foreign exchange paymen ts and transfers or for conversion into intis at the controlled financial market rate of the day. Exporters of nontraditional products availing them- selves of subsidized credit from the Fund for Nontradi- tional Exports (FENT) are eligible for 180-day nontrans- ferable exchange certificates (FENT certificates) against the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds of preship- ment and postshipment credits received from abroad, provided that such foreign credits do not exceed 72 percent of the contemplated export value. Ex tens ions of up to 360 additional days in the validity period of the certificates are permitted. FENT certificates remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank and bear interest at the LIBOR, plus 5 percentage points for the duration of the foreign export financing; they are applied directly by the Central Reserve Bank for the cancellation of part of the FENT credit to the exporter in local currency. Upon surrender of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues a second set of exchange certificates for the direct 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU cancellation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. For the remainder of the surrendered foreign exchange, ten-day exchange certificates are issued that are usable either for payments through the financial exchange market or for conversion into intis at the controlled financial market exchange rate. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Indu s t ry, Commerce, Tourism, and Integration. The Central Re- serve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts from exports. The Import Supervision Commis- sion is the ultimate administrative authority on applica- tions for prior import licenses denied at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also exercises general surveil- lance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Commission. The latter Com- mission exercises surveillance over customs valuation and has the authority to purchase and auction off, or to impose special duties on, those imports deemed to be undervalued or dumped. Public sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 require the approval of the Board for External Transactions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports valued at more than US$50,000 require, in addition, a resolution of the Min- istry of Indus try, Commerce, Tourism, and Integration. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a government guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme De- cree, on the recommendation of the Committee of the External Debt and the National Planning Ins t i tu te. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term in- debtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPC's approval for renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. Moreover, with effect from January 1983, the enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Inves tment and Foreign Technology (CONITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru and the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most payments for invisibles require the ap- proval of CONITE. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Re- serve Bank only in U .S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be 398 made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration As- sociation (LAI A). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions apply to 531 commodities out of the approximately 5,300 eight-digit items of the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NABAND INA ). These commodities include agricultural products, footwear, textiles, and security-related materials. With the exception of imports valued at US$2,000 or less a year, a set of 1,547 items specified by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade is importable only subject to prior approval (observation) from the appropriate m in is try; they include items subject to public sector monopoly or deemed in need of protection or damaging to public welfare. Importers must be listed in the National Register of Importers. An import license for imports from countries of the Andean Pact is not required, nor is the listing of the importer in the National Register of Importers; the imports need only be registered with the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the production of nontraditional exports are exempted from import du t ies, and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appropriate m in is try determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as milk powder, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing (ENC I ); and crude petroleum and petro- leum derivatives, only by PETROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevocable documentary credits, and the intermediating bank must guarantee refund ing of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. There are no m in imum financing require- ments for imports, and advance paymen ts are permitted except for capital goods imported by firms with an annual turnover in excess of I/. 10 billion. With specified exemptions, imported goods are sub ject to a un iform value-added tax of 11 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports (in addition to the import du ty ); exemp- tions from the value-added tax include agricultural prod- uc ts, certain minerals and fue ls, medicines, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors, aviation equipment and ships in excess of 1,000 tons, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centimeters). In addition, a selective consumption tax (also in addition to the import du ty) is levied on luxu ry items, ranging from 18 percent to 145 percent of the c .i .f. value. Under the 1980 customs tar iff, as amended, the maximum import du ty is 60 percent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate is 57 percent.4 In addition, many Inc lud ing the 15 percent surcharge. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports are subject to one or both of the following taxes: (1) an additional import tax for the promotion of nontra- ditional exports of 1 percent of the c.i.f. value, and (2) a maritime freight tax of 10 percent of the ocean freight charges. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported du ty free. Public sector imports mu s t, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for paymen ts for invisibles eligible for foreign exchange in either the official market or the controlled financial marke t. Remittances of foreign ex- change for debt service paymen ts on private sector debt dividends, profits (including depreciation allowances), royalties, patent fees, and technical assistance fees by enterprises operating in Peru were suspended for two years starting July 29, 1986. The servicing of short-term trade credits, short-term working capital loans that were contracted before July 28, 1985, and med ium- and long- term debt contracted after Ju ly 28, 1986 is excluded from the suspension. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has the authority to determine any exceptions to the suspension. Payment of the national currency equivalent of amortization and interest paymen ts on med ium- and long-term loans and other credits affected by the suspen- sion is required to be made to the Central Reserve Bank on the dates that paymen ts fall due. Remittances of net prof i ts, including depletion and depreciation allowances that are exempted from suspen- sion, require approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. In accordance with Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, limited to 20 percent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted for investments that generate employ- men t, are situated in undeveloped areas, or help to diversify exports.5 All paymen ts for royalties, pa ten ts, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its affiliates. The max imum interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Foreign inves tment by petroleum and mining companies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Gove rnmen t. Approval by the Foreign Exchange Committee of the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for paymen ts that have not been considered by the exchange regulations. Indicative limits on foreign exchange sales are established in some cases. The Central Reserve Bank, through its Foreign Exchange Committee, may authorize purchases of exchange in excess of the specified limits in jus t i f ied cases. 5Companies exporting at least 80 percent of the ir production to coun tr ies outside the Andean Pact and m in ing companies are exemp t. PERU Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 60 items, mainly rare wildlife or plants. Export licenses are required in 50 other cases. The Banco Minero del Peru is the principal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals produced by the public enterprises; the Banco Minero has a monopoly over gold exports; and (since August 1985) PETROPERU has a monopoly over exports of petro- leum derivatives. Exports of certain commodities speci- fied by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are subject to prior license. All export proceeds as well as export prefinancing loans must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank w i th in five working days of ex- pected date of receipt. The surrender requirements for oil exports and non-oil traditional exports in the official exchange market are 90 percent and 65 percent, respec- tively. The surrender requirement for mineral exports by small- and medium-sized mines is 45 percent. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received w i th in 180 days of sh ipmen t. Exporters of most nontraditional products are granted transferable tax credit certificates (certificados de rein- tegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to a maximum of 30 percent of the f .o .b. value. In addition, 10 percent is allowed for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area. Exports of local handicrafts recognized as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are eligible for CERTEX benef i ts at a rate of 35 percent. Exporters may be eligible for additional benefits at a rate of 10 percent in certain cases. CERTEX certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Export Credit Insurance Company of Peru (SECREX) administers an export credit guarantee program, and the Central Reserve Bank (since December 1983) provides or arranges export finance for nontraditional exports. To be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional exports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Nontraditional Prod- uc ts; each en try in the list is valid for two years. Most traditional exports are subject to a tax of 5 percent or 10 percent, which is payable in intis, but exports of copper, lead, zinc, silver, gold, tin, and tungsten are exempt when the international price is below a specified level. In addition to the subsidies granted through CERTEX certifi- cates, exporters of nontraditional goods who choose to convert their foreign exchange receipts into intis rather than holding MF certificates are entitled to a subsidy of 10 percent of the converted amoun t. The subsidy is the equivalent of 20 percent for cotton, wool, and alpaca clothing, canned fish, seafood, processed agricultural goods, and gold handicrafts. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be sold to the banking system within ten working days of receipt or be deposited in foreign currency accounts. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For trans- fers derived from foreign direct inves tmen t, the approval of CONITE is required; for most other transfers, the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. M in imum maturities and grace periods for d ifferent categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established. Furthermore, annual global limits are established on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed external debt (with certain excep- tions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. Debt service payments on private sector debt are suspended for a two-year period starting July 29, 1986, subject to certain exceptions (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). There is a limit on the servicing of external public debt equivalent to 10 percent of export earnings. Within that constraint, debt service payments are made only to those creditors from whom net inflows are expected. Short-term trade credits with banks that have not signed a refinancing agreement are to be rolled over on maturity until signature of agreement. Local currency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original obligation. With the permis- sion of the Central Bank, funds in these special accounts may be lent out domestically as loans denominated in foreign currency, with a maturity of less than one year. Service payments on public sector short-term debt to national or foreign banks are authorized only if matched by a loan from such creditors to Banco de la Nacion or COFIDE for an amount at least as large as the repaymen t, and conforming with specified conditions. In compliance with the foreign inves tment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances, CONITE, so that such inves tmen ts are directed to projects consid- ered essential for the country's development. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru as of July 1, 1971 wishes to benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to have agreed by June 30, 1974 to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company, so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, and national companies are those in which at least 80 percent of the capital is owned 400 by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 percent; this partic- ipation must be raised to at least 45 percent after 10 years and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 15-year period. For foreign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 percent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign inves tmen ts in firms engaged in basic industries or in mining activities (including petroleum production) and in firms that export at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the requirement of gradual transformation into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benef it from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enterprises may have access to short-term domestic credit in amounts not greater than their capital and reserves. Inves tment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding mining conces- sions may enter into mining contracts with the Govern- ment providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government par- ticipation of at least 25 percent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large-scale inves tment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed avail- ability of foreign exchange for transfers for (1) recovery of inves tmen t; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate; (3) paymen ts for justified services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benef i ts and incentives that may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold Export of gold in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domes- tic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINPECO is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 15. Import payments for specified foods tuffs, alcoholic beverages, textiles, clothing, shoes, and electric household appliances were transferred from the official exchange market (MUC) to the controlled financial market for foreign exchange. In addition, the percentage of surrender requ iremen ts of export proceeds in the MUC was reduced. July 3. Import paymen ts for specified products were transferred from the MUC to the controlled financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution market. The percentage of surrender requ iremen ts of export proceeds in the financial exchange market (MF) was increased. July 29. The following transactions were transferred from the MUC to the controlled financial market for foreign exchange: profit remittances and royalties, travel expenses, study travel abroad, medical trea tmen t, adver- tising expenses relating to exports, commissions and other expenses for overseas agents, and remittances of income to nonresidents. August 30. Selected import paymen ts were transferred from the MUC to the controlled financial market. In addition, the percentage of surrender requirements of export proceeds in the MUC was reduced. November 27. It was announced that the inti would be depreciated in the MUC and in the controlled financial market by a m in imum of 2.2 percent per mon th vis-a-vis the U .S. dollar starting in January 1987. December 2. A large number of import transactions were transferred from the MUC to the controlled financial market. In addition, the percentage of surrender require- men ts of export proceeds in the MUC was reduced and a special exchange subsidy for nontraditional exports was introduced. Imports and Import Payments February 14, July 3, and August 30. Selected import paymen ts were transferred from the MUC to the con- trolled financial market for foreign exchange. November 27. A large number of import transactions were transferred from the MUC to the controlled financial market. As a result, the only import payments allowed through the MUC after this modification were those considered "essential" by the authorities, including cer- tain foodstuffs, pharmaceutical inputs for medicines, and inputs for the agricultural sector. Payments for Invisibles July 29. Remittances of foreign exchange for private sector debt service paymen t s, d iv idends, profits (including depreciation allowances), royalties, patent fees, and tech- nical assistance fees by enterprises operating in Peru were suspended un t il Ju ly 28, 1988. The servicing of short-term trade credits, short-term working capital loans that were contracted before July 28, 1985, and med ium- and long-term debts contracted after Ju ly 28, 1986 was excluded from the suspension. Payment of the national currency equ iva lent of amortization and interest paymen ts on medium- and long-term loans and other credits affected by the suspension is required to be made to the Central PERU Reserve Bank on the dates that paymen ts fall due. The Central Bank may issue bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, redeemable after 24 mon ths from the date of issue, against receipt of the national currency counterpart of suspended paymen ts. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has the authority to determine any exceptions to these regulations. July 29. The limit on the servicing of external public debt equivalent to 10 percent of export earnings was extended. Within this constraint, debt service payments would be made only to those creditors from whom net inflows of resources are expected. July 31. Withdrawal in U. S. dollars from foreign currency accounts with principal amounting to less than US$1,000 was permitted. For accounts exceeding US$1,000 (includ- ing certificates of deposit), the suspension of withdrawal in U .S. dollars was extended un t il April 30, 1987. Exports and Export Proceeds February 15. The surrender requ iremen ts in the MUC were reduced from 95 percent to 90 percent for mineral exports by small- and medium-sized mines and from 80 percent to 70 percent for nontraditional exports. July 3. The surrender requirements in the MUC were reduced from 90 percent to 70 percent for mineral exports by small- and medium-sized mines and from 70 percent to 60 percent for nontraditional exports. August 30. The surrender requirements in the MUC were reduced from 95 percent to 80 percent for non-oil traditional exports (excluding those made by small- and medium-sized mines), and from 60 percent to 50 percent for nontraditional exports. December 2. The surrender requirements in the MUC were reduced from 100 percent to 90 percent for oil exports, from 80 percent to 65 percent for non-oil tradi- tional exports (excluding those made by small- and me- dium-sized mines), and from 65 percent to 45 percent for mineral exports by small- and medium-sized mines. Non- traditional exporters, which were previously required to surrender 50 percent of export proceeds in the MUC, were exempted from that requirement. December 2. A subsidy was granted to nontraditional exporters that choose to convert their foreign exchange receipts into intis instead of holding financial market exchange certificates. The subsidy rates are the controlled financial market rate plus 10 percent for most nontradi- tional exports, and plus 20 percent for nontraditional exports of cotton, wool or clothing apparel, canned fish or seafood, processed agricultural goods, and gold handicrafts. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the med ium term. On December 31, 1986 the official rate was P 20.5300 per US$1. The spot buy ing and selling margins are determined on a competitive basis for all transactions under the general jurisdiction of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines. The Central Bank is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. In terbank trading takes place on-floor at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX) from 4:30 p .m. through 5:00 p .m. daily, and off- floor through telephone communications between banks during business hours. The Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier on the trading floor. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investments in the Philippines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). In addition to commercial banks (KBS), the thrift banks and the rural banks are authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange; subject to certain cond i t ions, they may purchase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents, for conversion into pesos. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing paymen ts, but all exchange proceeds from ex- ports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed cur- rencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Authorized agent banks and foreign ex- change dealers are authorized to accept notes denomi- nated in Saudi Arabian riyals, Kuwaiti dinars, and Bahrain dinars for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whe ther individual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only w i th the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or •Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 402 convertible foreign currencies and with peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonres ident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and nonresi- dents may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th au- thorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All mer- chandise imports are allowed, except for certain com- modities that are regulated or restricted for reasons, inter alia, of public hea l th, national security, international comm i tmen ts, and development and rationalization of local indus tr ies. Imports are at present classified into freely importable commodities, prohibited, banned, regulated, or liberalized commodities. The first group comprises commodities that are freely importable and that may be given due course by authorized agent banks (AABs) w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank. Prohibited commodities are com- modities whose importation is prohibited, such as those originating from South Africa, onions, potatoes, garlic, cabbages (except for seedling purposes), coffee, used clothing and rags, and toy guns. The third category— banned commodities —consists of those for which impor- tation requires prior Central Bank approval. These are fu r ther classified into nonessential consumer (NEC) and unclassified consumer (UC) goods. Regulated commodity imports are def ined as commodities that require clearances and permits from various government agencies but do not need prior Central Bank approval before importation. Finally, liberalized commodities are those that were formerly banned but may now be imported without prior Central Bank approval. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of commodities that are classified under the two categories of consumer goods —UC and NEC —are subject to prior approval of the Central Bank, and the opening of letters of credit for such imports must be reported to the Central Bank w i th in 24 hours. Paymen ts for imports of certain other commodities (whea t, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Imports on a con- signment basis require prior Central Bank approval. All importations of machinery and equ ipment for agriculture and for export-oriented enterprises registered w i th the Central Bank, BOI, and Export Processing Zone Au- thority (EPZA) may be given due course by AABs w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank or favorable endorse- ment from concerned government agencies, except those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution falling under "other regulated imports." Importations of regulated capital goods financed through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Prior approval for imports of machinery and capital equipment by the Board of Inves tment is required for certain local content and "progressive" manufacturing programs. Trade with any of the state-trading countries, excluding Yugoslavia, must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of paymen t, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open account (O/A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is restricted to oil firms, export-oriented companies certified or registered by the Central Bank, the Board of Inves tmen t, the Garments and Textile Export Board, or the EPZA, exporters of semiconductor devices, exporters of gar- ments and footwear, manufacturers of paper mills and paper, franchised public utility concerns, and the partic- ipants in the Progressive Car Manufac tur ing Program, Progressive Export Program for Consumer Electronics Products, Progressive Diesel Manufacturing Program, and Progressive Motorcycle Program. The use of these pro- cedures by producer firms is normally restricted to com- modities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Un- less arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$1,000 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment and are subject to the release certificate requirement. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not involving paymen ts from the Philippines (i.e., "no dollar" imports) are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt from the requ irement of opening letters of credit. The reserve requirement on marginal deposit on all import letters of credit is 100 percent. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commit- ments. A watch-listed firm may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks require 50 percent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 percent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports into border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are prohibited. In principle, all other paymen ts are permitted, with prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents of residents while abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, PHILIPPINES and interest, royalties, and for film and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange allowance for travel abroad is limited to the following amounts: (1) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of US$3,000 for the United States, Canada, South America, Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Africa, Japan, and New Zealand (Area I); (2) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of US$1,000 for Hong Kong, Taiwant, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and other countries not included in the coverage of the area under (1) (Area II); (3) for travelers under 21 years of age, up to a maximum of US$500, irrespective of duration and destination; and (4) for overseas contract workers with prearranged employment, up to a maximum of US$100. Applications for travel abroad for a fifth or subsequent time within one calendar year are subject to careful review by the agent banks to prevent abuse. A foreign tourist holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equivalent of US$1,000 against payment in another foreign currency brought in by the tourist; beyond this amount, approval must be obtained from the Central Bank. The following limits apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad for s tuden ts undertaking bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities. The allowances are divided ac- cording to the areas in which the study is undertaken: living allowances are provided up to US$500 per month in Area I and US$350 per month in Area II; books and supplies allowances up to US$500 per year in both areas; clothing allowance up to US$500 per year in Area I and US$300 per year in Area II; other miscellaneous school expenses are allowed up to US$500 per year in Area I and US$300 per year in Area II. Any scholarship allow- ances are deducted from these amounts. High school students may be granted foreign exchange for education only under an exchange program and under the following conditions: the maximum travel funds per student is US$500, and the maximum clothing allowance and inci- dental expenses during his stay abroad is US$500, or US$1,000 a student a calendar year. The limits on remittances to dependents of residents are as follows: US$250 a month for each dependent living in Area I as defined above, and US$150 a month for each dependent living in Area II. The maintenance allowances for dependents are granted only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized after October 14, 1984 are permitted in fu l l, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights accruing after October 14, 1984 are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Central Bank or the Technology Transfer Board, provided that contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES include restrictions on the export of the product. Remit- tances of the producer's share of earnings (net of taxes) made on motion-picture film and rentals on television film are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from films. Notwithstanding other provisions, however, all unserviced eligible nontrade, nonloan remittances (e.g., dividends, profits, royalties, lease paymen ts, fees, com- missions, etc.) earned and which became due and payable before October 15, 1984 and in arrears of transfers as of that date shall not be serviced without prior Central Bank approval. Dividends of current income arising from equ i ty in- vestments in nonpriority sectors made in connection with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred during the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current income may be transferred. Foreign exchange within the limits established above may be purchased from authorized agent banks, w i th the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications for payments for certain invisibles for which no basic allow- ance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philippines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take ou t, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$1,000 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic bank notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P 2,700 for first-class passage and P 1,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of P 1,350 for first-class passengers and P 810 for economy- class passengers are provided for groups of people trav- eling for recognized special purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also pro- hibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central Bank); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade and Indus try. 404 As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and unless collec- tion of the proceeds will be under taken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Pay- ments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed cur- rency within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 bus iness days of receipt. The und rawn balances of exports involving initial drawings of less than 100 percent of the f .o .b. invoice value must be collected and repatriated w i th in 150 days from the date of shipment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin America, and 120 days from date of shipment for exports to other countries. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepaymen t. An export tax is levied on logs. The Philippine Sugar Marketing Agency (PHILSUMA) has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state-trading countries, excluding Yugoslavia, is handled through the Philippine International Trading Cor- poration. There are separate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. Whenever the net foreign exchange receipts from invisibles amount to at least US$100,000 (or its equivalent in other currencies) for the calendar year immediately preceding, the firm may, upon application, be certified by the Central Bank as export oriented and shall be entitled to retain a portion of its earnings in a special foreign currency deposit account with AABs for operating expenses abroad and other contingencies, equivalent to the average expenses in- curred during the preceding 3 mon ths plus 10 percent of the gross foreign exchange receipts during the immediately preceding 12 months. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U .S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are allowed, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonres- idents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate spec- ified m in imum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging from 50 percent to 80 percent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic bank notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. Peso- denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Remittances of foreign exchange for re- payment of principal on all foreign obligations of whatever maturity due to foreign banks or other financial institutions during the period October 17, 1983 to January 16, 1985 are subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. All inward and outward capital movemen ts, with the excep- tion of certain banking operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign invest- ments (in kind or in cash), as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented industries, and to other (nonexport-oriented) industries not utilizing do- mestic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatri- ation of cash inves tmen ts made after March 15, 1973 in export-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a m in imum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash inves tmen ts made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for inves tmen ts in domestic commer- cial banks, which, if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule specified under (4) in the following paragraph. There are restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash inves tmen ts made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the inves tment is made, as follows: (1) inves tmen ts in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in fu l l, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repa- triable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the inves tmen t, but no annual PHILIPPINES installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) inves tmen ts in enter- prises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the inve s tmen t; and (4) for inves tmen ts in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed ac- cording to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments after liqui- dation; for amoun ts w i th in the range US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments after liquidation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual in- stallments after liquidation. Approval and registration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be eligible for profit remit- tances and capital repatriation. During the period between the sale of the investment and actual repatriation, the proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in government securities, in shares of stock in BOI-registered industries, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investment is permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine Ex- ternal Debt into Equity Inves tmen ts. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be converted into equity inves tmen t. Such equity inves tmen ts are subject to a 5 percent fee for preferred sectors (the export, agricultural, and certain social sectors) and a 10 percent fee for other sectors. For inves tmen ts in the priority sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first three years after the in- ves tmen t, and during the four th through eighth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the invest- ment may be repaid in any one year; for investments in other sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the ten th year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the inves tment may be repaid in any one year. Investments in nonpriority sectors are subject to the requirement that 10 percent of the total investment must be funded with pesos purchased from the Central Bank or a Philippine commercial bank at the prevailing exchange rate; no such requirement applies to inves tmen ts in priority sectors. Without prior central bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade transactions. They may, however, accept deposits in nine scheduled currencies2 from nonresidents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent withholding tax. Twenty- six domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow f u n ds from international money markets for domestic on- lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits 2Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES from abroad, provided that repayment terms are w i th in the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. Maturities of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as follows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 million, seven years; and (4) over US$3 million, eight to ten years. Firms whose products are clearly destined for export, as well as firms earning foreign exchange and duly certified as belonging to other priority areas (food, energy, infrastructure, transport, and com- munication) with appropriate government agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 million with a m in imum repayment period of seven to eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 percent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an indus try deemed to be overcrowded or for firms that are in arrears with government financial institutions. Any prospective borrowing equivalent to US$3 million or more must be submitted for inclusion in the Central Bank's programming of external credit resources. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may transfer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires prior approval of the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Operations and Inves t- ments Department. Except as otherwise specifically au- thorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction that may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in secu- rities between residents and nonresidents. Twenty-three foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking un i ts in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore banking units may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. 406 All investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their inves tmen ts and to remit earnings thereon as well as sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are d ifferent arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments;" the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreign nationals are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of inves tmen t ," and at least 60 percent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of inves tmen t" must be owned by Philippine na- tionals. Under the Foreign Inves tment Law of 1968, new enterprises where inves tment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 percent and which are not covered by the Inves tment Incentives Act of 1967 must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 percent, permission from the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Indus try Assistance Ac t, irrespective of whe ther the gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. Beginning in August 1985, repayment of certain foreign debts of the Philippine private corporate sector is guided by a Central Bank program administered by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank. The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the 19 domestic primary gold producers. The producers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. Small gold panners are exempt from the scheme. Gold in any form other than jewelry may be imported only for industrial and artistic purposes, and any person desiring to import gold must secure a license from the appropriate department of the Central Bank. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1- Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500-Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500- Piso Douglas Mac Ar thur centenary coin (1980); and a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1981). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 570, dated June 9, 1977. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April 18. Only corporations, partnerships, and single- proprietorships registered with the Ministry of Tourism were authorized to accept foreign exchange in payment of goods sold or services rendered. Imports and Import Payments January 14. Used clothing, which was permitted to be imported pursuant to Circular No. 1060, was restricted to that allowed under R .A. No. 4653. January 27. The Central Bank issued a circular letter reducing the m in imum DA/OA import payment terms for participants of "progressive manufacturing" (local con- tent) programs from 180 to 60 days. March 24. Importation of wheat, wheat flour, soybeans, soybean meals, feed grains, and feed substitutes was permitted without prior approval of the National Food Authority. All Authorized Agent Banks (AABs) were required to transmit directly to the CICCO daily and weekly reports of letters of credit opened on liberalized items and availments covering the products specified in Circular No. 1096. April 10. The Central Bank announced a comprehensive import supervision (antidumping) scheme to be imple- mented from May 1, 1986 based on Joint Orders Nos. 1 and 2 of the Ministries of Finance and Trade and Indus try and the Central Bank, issued February 2-March 24, 1986. April 30. A listing of regulated products that may be imported without prior approval of the BOI and other government agencies was issued. May 8. "Polyester staple fiber" and "filament yarns" were deleted from the list of products allowed for impor- tation without prior approval of the BOI and other government agencies. Importation of these commodities was made subject to joint authorization from the Tariff Commission and the BOI. June 6. A list of products that may be imported w i thout prior approval of the BOI was issued. AABs were required to transmit directly to the CICCO daily and weekly reports of letters of credit opened for liberalized products listed in Circular No. 1105. June 20. The SGS-Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme was suspended until fu r ther announcemen t. July 18. The importation of 219 commodities in the EP, NEP, UP, SEC, SEP category listed in Annex A of Circular 1109 no longer required prior approval of the concerned government agencies. The importation of NEC items listed in Annex B of the same circular was allowed through letters of credit w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank. August 1. The requirement for foreign financing of capital goods imports was abolished. September 26. The prior approval requirement for the importation of a list of products was abolished and their importation through letters of credit was permitted. October 15. Executive Order No. 49 restructured the rates of import duties and classifications of certain articles PHILIPPINES under Section 104 of the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978, as amended. November 25. Executive Order No. 70 restructured the import du ty rates and classifications of certain articles under Section 104 of the Tariff and Customs Code, as amended. Payments for Invisibles January 31. The guidelines for the restructuring and repayment of certain foreign currency debt obligations of Philippine private financial sector obligors were issued. June 27. Executive Order No. 24 repealed P.O. No. 1193, as amended, and Letter of Instruction No. 595, as amended, and accordingly revoked the executive author- ity granted in the form of tourist du ty-free shops. September 4. Executive Order No. 46 granted the Ministry of Tourism, through the Philippine Tourism Au thor i ty (PTA), authority to establish and operate a du ty- and tax-free merchandising system in the Philippines. November 21. Execu t ive Order No. 69 increased the aviation security fee on departing international passengers as prescribed in LOI No. 414-A, dated June 17, 1976. Exports and Export Proceeds February 12. MAAB No. 2 provided for revised rules on expiry dates of export declarations and permits. February 26. The expiry date of export declaration or export permits was set at 30 days from their issuance or from the date of delivery specified in letters of credit, wh ichever is earlier. March 19. Executive Order No. 9 lifted the ban on the exportation of copra and reduced the additional export du ty thereon. July 1. Executive Order No. 26 abolished the export duties on all export produc ts, except logs, imposed under Section 514 of the Tariff and Customs Code. Proceeds from Invisibles January 3. Circular 1088 amended the following Sec- tions of Circular 1028, dated October 12, 1984: (1) Section 6 - Foreign Exchange Earnings of Service Exporters. Res iden ts of the Philippines engaged in technical, profes- sional, and other services rendered in the Philippines or abroad and paid for in foreign exchange must sell for pesos their net foreign exchange receipts not later than three bus iness days following the date of receipt in the Philippines; (2) Section 8 - Foreign Exchange Earnings of Philippine Overseas Construction and Construction- related Contractors. Corporations and partnerships reg- istered w i th the Philippine Overseas Construction Board and/or those registered w i th the M in is try of Labor and Emp loyment must remit their net foreign exchange re- ceipts and must sell the same for pesos with AABs not later than three bus iness days following the date of receipt in the Philippines; and (3) Paragraph (a) of Section 22. In the case of Philippine overseas construction and construction-related contractors/service contractors, recru i tmen t, placement, mann ing, crewing agency, 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES noncompliance must be referred by the Central Bank to the Philippine Overseas Construction Board of the Min- istry of Labor and Employment for proper action. January 6. Payments of the peso equivalent of foreign exchange inward remittances of Filipino workers abroad or of Philippine or international companies to designated persons or corporations in the Philippines through the OBU's correspondent banks abroad were permitted. Capital Januarys. Circular 1088 amended the following sections of Circular 1028 dated October 12, 1984: (1) Section 27 - Registration of Foreign Investments. All foreign invest- ments in equity (whether in the form of cash or in kind) or in Central Bank-approved securities and reinvestments must be registered w i th the Central Bank; (2) Section 28 - Interim Investments. These inves tmen ts must be placed by the foreign investors in government securities, shares of stock in BOI-registered industries, or shares of stock in Central Bank-certified export-oriented industries; (3) Paragraph (a)2 and paragraph 6 of Section 51. Inves tmen ts in BOI-registered enterprises not engaged in production of import substitute items may be repatriated in three equal annual installments starting one year after liquidation of inves tmen t; (4) Section 61. Applications for remittance for specified purposes may be acted upon by AABs without prior certification, approval, or authorization from the Central Bank, provided that such applications are supported by documents listed in said Section; (5) Section 61-A - Rebates, Discounts, and Refund of Export Proceeds due to Defective Export Shipments. Exporters may remit abroad rebates, dis- counts, and refund of export proceeds due to defective export shipments with prior Central Bank approval; and (6) Section 61-B. With prior approval by the Central Bank, export traders duly registered with the BOI may remit foreign exchange for the establishment and maintenance of overseas trade offices. January 31. The guidelines for the restructuring and repayments of foreign currency obligations of the Phil- ippine private financial sector were announced. July 24. Executive Order No. 32 directed the estab- lishment of a program for the conversion of Philippine external debt into equity inves tmen ts. August 4. A program allowing the conversion of most categories of external debt, including rescheduling, into equity investments was announced. Under the program, external debt may be converted into equity investment subject to a 5 percent fee for preferred sectors (the export, agricultural, and certain social sectors) and a 10 percent fee for other sectors. November 7. Executive Order No. 63 granted incentives to foreign investment in tourist-related projects and tourist establishments. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy = 1 zloty). The exchange rate between the zloty and the currencies of countries other than members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) ,2 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies, each of which accounts for at least 1 percent of Poland's external current account settlements with the convertible currency area. The currency composition of the basket and the currency weights are defined on a mon th ly basis in light of current account transactions in convertible currency during the previous months of the calendar year. The value of the zloty in terms of the basket is adjusted periodically, on the basis of the difference between foreign and domestic trade prices, and with a view to securing profitability from the major portion of exports.3 The National Bank of Poland quotes exchange rates for the ECU, the SDR, and for the currencies of 29 countries4 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the notes and coins of a limited number5 of the currencies, it stands ready to effect transactions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate, except for notes and coins, for which the margins are 2 percent. Rates are generally set at least once a week, normally on Thursdays to become effective when they are published on the following Monday. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in international markets on the day the rates are set. There is a provision for intra-week resetting of the quoted rates if exchange rates on international markets move by more than 1 percent. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on December 31, 1986 were Zl 196.63 and Zl 198.61, respectively, per US$1.6 The National Bank of Poland does not quote forward exchange rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies for normal business 'Poland became a member of the International Mone tary Fund on June 12, 1986, and avails itself of the transitional arrangements under Article X IV, Section 2, of the Fund 's Articles of Agreemen t. 2The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 3On February 1, 1987 the value of the zloty was changed from Zl 193.25 = US$1 (rate effective at end-January 1987) to Zl 240 = US$1. Australian dollar, Austrian schilling, Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, Greek drachma, Indian rupee, Italian lira, Iranian rial, Irish pound, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinar, Lebanese pound, Libyan dinar, Luxembourg franc, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, pound sterling, Portuguese escudo, Saudi Arabian riyal, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, U.S. dollar, Turkish lira, and Yugoslav dinar. 5Indian rupee, Iranian rial, Irish pound, Kuwaiti dinar, Libyan dinar, and Saudi Arabian riyal. 6The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on February 1, 1987 were Zl 238.80 and Zl 241.20, respectively, per US$1. transactions, but a 100 percent surcharge is applied on the sale of such currencies to Polish tourists traveling abroad. The Council of Banks sets maximum allowable commissions and charges on foreign exchange transac- tions in line with international practice. These levies are paid in zlotys (foreign currency) by domestic (foreign) customers. Most of Poland's trade and financial settlements with CMEA member countries are effected in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The clearing ruble is used for most settlements with Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and for some settlements with Kam- puchea and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Of- ficial exchange rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set by the National Bank of Poland and published each Monday. Exchange rates for transferable and clear- ing rubles are set at the same level, and generally remain constant for extended periods of time. They are changed periodically to ensure the profitability of the major portion of exports to the socialist countries.7 Buying and selling rates for transferable and clearing rubles are quoted with a spread of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. At the end of December 1986, the buying and selling rates for the zloty against transferable and clearing rubles were Zl 94.52 and Zl 95.48, respectively.8 The National Bank of Poland also quotes weekly exchange rates for the zloty against the currencies of other CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are based on multilateral and supplemental bilateral agreements with the socialist partners, and are used for noncommer- cial settlements, e.g., diplomatic representation expenses, international travel, scholarships, etc. Buying and selling rates (including for notes and coins) are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. A 30 percent surcharge is applied on the sale of these currencies for private trips abroad. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Exchange Regulation Law lies with the Parliament (SEJM). Imple- menting regulations are promulgated by the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of Finance and Foreign Trade. The authority for the enforcement of the foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance. The Min- ister of Finance exercises related functions mainly through the President of the National Bank of Poland. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Only economic units authorized for this purpose by the Ministry of Foreign 7On February 1, 1987 the exchange rate for the transferable ruble (TRO) was changed from Zl 95 = TR1 to Zl 115 = TR1. 8The buying and selling rates for the zloty against transferable and clearing rubles on February 1, 1987 were Zl 114.42 and Zl 115.58, respectively. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND Trade (MFT) may effect exports and imports; un i ts not so authorized must channel their imports and exports through authorized organizations. At the end of Decem- ber 31, 1986, 347 un i ts were authorized to engage in foreign trade on a permanent basis, and 61 of these were specialized foreign trade organizations (FTOs). An FTO is generally authorized to trade in all goods, subject to the limitations of its charter and its rights as specified by the MFT. Except where an FTO trades in goods (such as coal) that are basic to the economy, no FTO has a monopoly in any one i tem. In addition to the FTOs, 286 economic un i ts had specific trading rights at the end of December 31, 1986; 89 of these were major producing and servicing companies or were affiliated with such companies. Thirty-eight of the 286 units were legal entities, such as small-scale producers and cooperatives. The remainder were individual persons, of which 16 were foreign residents established in Poland. Subject to an appeal in the administrative courts, the MFT is empowered to withdraw the trading right of any unit that ceases to meet the conditions stipulated in that un i t 's trading authority. Arrears are maintained with respect paymen ts. to external Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Poland has multilateral and bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.9 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts a. Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural persons) can hold foreign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, etc. Three types of foreign currency accounts are available: convertible currency accounts "A" and "N," and so- cialist currency accounts "S." (1) Accounts "A" can be freely credited with convert- ible currency brought or transferred from abroad and/or deposited with a declaration of the sources of the funds (i.e., royalties, copyrights, gifts from nonresidents). Ac- count holders can use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist 9At the end of December 1986, Poland had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Colom- bia, Ecuador, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, and Nepal. Poland also had trade agreements w i th bilateral paymen ts features for certain commodities with Argentina, Bangladesh, Iceland, Malta, Mexico, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia. Except for bilateral agreements with Albania, the People's Republic of China, India, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and Nepal, settlements under bilateral agreements were in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the People's Republic of China were in Swiss francs, with India in Indian rupees, with Nepal in pounds sterling, and in clearing rubles with Albania, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. 410 travel abroad by them and their next of k in, to buy foreign exchange coupons for use in hard currency stores, and to effect gifts to family members. The funds on deposit cannot be used to effect settlements between individuals. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing ex- change rate, are freely permitted. Interest, paid in foreign exchange, is earned at the following annual rates: 5 percent on call deposits; and 9 percent, 10 percent, and 11 percent, respectively, on one-year, two-year, and three-year term deposits, regardless of the currency of denomination of the deposit. (2) Accounts "N," which came into effect on April 1, 1985, can be freely credited with convertible currency w i thout the requ i rement that the source of the funds be declared. Funds on deposit in these accounts do not earn interest, and may not be transferred or used to finance travel abroad. However, after one year the funds on deposit are transferable to an ind iv idua l 's account "A." In all other respects, the modalities of an account "N" are identical to those of an account "A." (3) Accounts "S" can be freely credited with socialist country currencies derived from wages, property sales, inheritances, etc., and with transfers from other accounts "S." Funds in these accounts are freely transferable abroad (to other socialist countries) and may be freely withdrawn in any socialist country currency, with con- version effected at the national currency rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland. Deposits of call money earn interest at 3 percent per annum, and one-year term deposits earn interest at 4.5 percent per annum. Since 1982 enterprises have been authorized to maintain foreign exchange retention rights ("ROD" accounts) against exports in convertible currencies.10 Except in the case of joint ven tures incorporated under the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation, claims in "ROD" accounts are not the property of the enterprise, but rather represent priority rights to purchase foreign exchange up to a specified proportion of the foreign exchange earned from an enterprise's sale of goods and services to the convertible currency area. An enterprise's retention quota is determined individually by the MFT in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, and is based, among other things, on the (convertible currency) import content of its production and the nature of the produc t. An enterprise may use the funds in its account to purchase production-related and capital goods imports from the convertible currency area, either for its own purposes or for those of its cooperating enterprises. The funds may not be used for business tr ips, publicity, and/or marke t ing expenses. In 1986, some 15 percent of Poland's imports from the convertible currency area were financed through "ROD" accounts. Resident individuals and enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission IOProv is ion has been made for a s im i lar scheme w i th respect to foreign exchange earnings in transferab le rub le s, but there have not yet been any accounts established under the scheme. Re ten t ion r igh ts are also au tho- rized for exports to bilateral paymen ts agreement coun t r ies that are not members of the CMEA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the National Bank of Poland. Such permission is granted only on "proof of necessity." b. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible currency accounts ("C" accounts) at the National Bank of Poland, the Bank Handlowy, and the Bank PKO. These accounts can be credited with funds brought or transferred into Poland, with transfers from other "C" accounts, and with convertible currency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used for purchases from hard currency stores and gifts to residents. The funds earn interest, payable in foreign currency, at the same rates as account "A" deposits. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors may be asked to declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Drawings on a zloty account require a foreign exchange permit, which is normally granted without restrictions for any internal disbursements. Apart from zloty s legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with foreign exchange converted to zlotys at the current exchange rate. Permits for conversion back to foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings on savings bank books, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or residents. Such transfers require a foreign exchange permit, except gifts for residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requirement. Licenses are issued by the MFT or by its "full-powers" agent employed by the economic unit applying for the license. The customs authority issues licenses not exceeding Zl 100,000 in value for gifts and souvenirs. Only economic units with permanent trading rights are eligible to have an MFT licensing agent in residence. These agents issue licenses within the context of a "general authorization," which is granted to an economic unit by the MFT, remains valid until the end of the calendar year in which it is issued, and specifies the type and amount of the goods. General authorizations are not issued for certain goods or transactions, including those in the area of construction engineering and building technology, leasing apartments, imports utilizing foreign credit, and trade under barter agreements. The MFT must render its decision on the issuance of a general authori- zation within ten days after an application is filed. The same time limit applies to decisions on the granting of import and export licenses. For statistical purposes, the POLAND importation of services requires a license issued by the MFT. No fur ther license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the per- formance or use of related services. Trade in certain goods is prohibited for social reasons under the penal code. General authorizations and licenses are readily granted at no cost, provided that the relevant regulations are observed and that the transactions are in line with national plan allocations. Contracts do not become valid, nor may payment orders be drawn, until a license has been issued, except for intergovernmental agreements and instanta- neous contracts such as those made on a metals exchange. A license application must be filed with the appropriate authority within seven days after agreement on a contract is reached. A license remains valid until the final delivery date for the goods, or until the date of final paymen t; in specific cases the validity period of a license may be extended. For data collection purposes, the economic unit must forward a general authorization and a license to the Foreign Trade Information Center within two days of their respective issuance; the documents are returned to the units within ten days of their registration by the Center. On the basis of the registered documents and the utilization records that the units are required to keep, the customs administration monitors whether goods are traded according to valid documents. It also has the authority to inspect all relevant documents and to issue instructions for eliminating irregularities. In the event of changes in the contracted provisions, the economic unit must notify the relevant authorities (the MFT or its agent, and the Information Center) of the necessary changes in the license within seven days of receipt of the documentation, stating the reason for the changes. In the event of a change of more than 5 percent in the foreign currency price, or mistakes or errors in data, a new license must be issued, which automatically and simultaneously rescinds the former version. If a license is not fully utilized, the economic unit must declare this to the appropriate authorities within 14 days after confirmation of this fact. Such a declaration is not required if the underutilization amounts to less than Zl 50,000, or does not exceed 5 percent of the price or volume stated in the license. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. There are no import quotas. The annual plan determines import needs by commodity groupings and value. These are balanced against financing according to priorities, with raw and intermediate products being the most im- portant. Foreign exchange allocation plans, which are prepared by the Planning Commission in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Finance, and National Bank of Poland, are approved by the Council of Ministers on an annual basis. An Inter-Ministerial Committee meets every two weeks to determine the distribution of available foreign exchange in light of this plan. Normally, about 60 percent of convertible currency imports are financed centrally; these imports, largely 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND intermediate products purchased in line with the needs of the annual plan, are distributed to the enterprises by the State. Enterprise "ROD" accounts are usually ex- pected to finance about 20 percent of imports. The larger portion of the remaining foreign exchange available for imports is allocated (under the control of branch minis- tries) for enterprise needs related to government contracts and operational programs. Separately, the branch min- istries are in control of exchange for their own require- ments. The residual is allocated to the relevant branch ministries for the import needs of the "nonproduction" sphere. In general, residents may import reasonable quantities of goods for noncommercial use free of customs du ty. Quantity limits may be set on a commodity-by-commodity basis. There are no special regulations pertaining to border trade, and no direct taxes on exports. Imports are subject to stamp duties and turnover taxes at rates similar to those on domestic goods. Exports are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Economic units are entitled to income tax drawbacks and wage tax exemptions based on both the value of their exports and increases in such values. Drawback rates are set annually by the Minister of Finance. Most trade with CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is con- ducted under bilateral agreements negotiated annually within the framework of five-year bilateral trade and payments agreements. Imports from these countries may be exempted from customs duties. Under a revised domestic price setting system appli- cable to trade with both socialist and nonsocialist coun- tries, starting from February 1982, the Government from time to time publishes a list of goods to be traded internally at government-set prices. These prices are based on international prices, but are not identical to them in many cases. To compensate for these price differentials, the system, which is under the authority of the MFT, credits or debits the relevant economic unit with an equalization amount if the official price differs from its actual (foreign trade) transaction price (converted to zlotys at the ex- change rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland). All goods for which there are official (government-set) prices are subject to the system, although the MFT has the right to delete products from the list. On a case-by-case basis, the system is also applied to goods subject to contract prices, with the decision whether to do so being negotiated between the MFT and the economic unit concerned. Firms producing for export may receive payments under an Equalization Settlement System. Under this system, a subsidy (tax) is applied to (levied on) the transactions price received by an exporter —or paid by an importer— in order to equalize that price (converted into zlotys at the commercial exchange rate) with the prices on the domestic market. Unless specifically exempted, all foreign currency re- ceipts from exports must be declared, repatriated, and surrendered to the Polish foreign exchange banks. Ex- 412 change received under contractual payment terms must be surrendered immediately; other exchange must be surrendered within one month of its receipt. Nonresidents may take out of Poland, free of customs duty, souvenirs not exceeding Zl 2,000 in value. However, they may export goods bought in hard currency stores up to the value of foreign currencies declared at the point of first entry and adjusted for reasonable living expenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from merchan- dise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions fulfilling licensing requirements. All other invisible trans- actions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. In principle, permission for tourist travel to countries other than members of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is granted only if means of support abroad is assured. This requirement can be met in one of the following three ways: (1) living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents; (2) living expenses while abroad are covered from the resi- dent's own funds in a resident account in foreign con- vertible currencies or, in special cases, from an allowance obtained from the National Bank of Poland; and (3) travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers use the funds in their accounts "A." In special cases, foreign currency travel allowances may be granted by the National Bank of Poland for travel to convertible currency countries. These allowances are subject to a 100 percent foreign exchange tax. For official and business travel, separate allowances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Nonresident travelers to Poland are expected to fulfill minimum living expenses or conversion requirements up to the equivalent of US$15 per day. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries can reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent brought into Poland, provided the amount is not for more than the amount originally converted into zlotys less the required conver- sion amounts. Without a permit from the foreign exchange authority, residents may bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Zl 10,000 per person, of which the largest permissible banknote is Zl 5,000 and the largest permissible coin is Zl 50. Nonresidents from CMEA countries may bring into or take out of the country zlotys up to the amount certified by their domestic banks. Special exchange regulations apply to invisible trans- actions with CMEA countries: residents visiting CMEA countries are entitled to an allowance of Zl 30,000 per person every two years, and one half of this amount for each child up to the age of 7 years. In addition, funds in accounts "S" may be used. A portion of the travel allowance may be given in the currency of the country visited in amounts determined by that country's regula- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions. For the rest, travelers must acquire traveler's checks in the currency of destination. All conversions are effected with a 30 percent surcharge. Under certain circumstances, foreign exchange may be made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Poland, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are deter- mined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Profits on direct inves tment by nonres iden ts, other than those from jo int ven tures, can be transferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of inves ted capital. If the inves tment yields a convertible currency export to import surplus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus can be transferred abroad, provided the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profit after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. There are no limits on the transfer abroad out of required foreign exchange of profits on direct invest- ment by nonresidents in the form of jo int ven tures incorporated under the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on Poland's permissible external indebtedness. Within this limit, for- eign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovern- mental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the National Bank of Poland, Bank Handlowy, and Bank PKO are empowered to borrow abroad, on short to long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minister of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks. With approval from the Minister of Finance, socialized enterprises may take financial loans from foreign banks. Subject to approval by the Minister of Foreign Trade, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, socialized enterprises are allowed commercial credits granted by foreign banks or suppliers to finance imports. To borrow abroad, a socialized enterprise also requires the consent of the domestic bank which holds its basic account; one aim of this requirement is to prevent Polish enterprises from circumventing domestic credit policy by use of foreign resources. The Government has established general directives for extending commercial credits relating to foreign trade activities. Socialized enterprises may extend such credits only with approval from the Minister of Foreign Trade, who prescribes the contractual conditions in each case. Negotiable export documents are discountable by the Bank Handlowy. POLAND Direct foreign inves tment in Poland is allowed in the field of small-scale indus try under the law of Ju ly 6, 1982. A permit is required from the chief administrative office ("voivodship") of the area where the inves tment is to be located. The permit, which is valid for up to 20 years, is issued after the investor has lodged a "founding deposit" in convertible currency with the Bank PKO in an amount equivalent to US$50,000. A foreign investor is obliged to import inpu ts in k ind in the form of machinery and equ ipmen t, materials, technology, etc. The value of such goods cannot be lower than the m in imum found ing de- posit, which yields interest according to the normal bank rate and can be w i thdrawn after certification by the voivodship office that the inves tment project is complete. Inves tment profits other than those from jo int ven tu res (for which transfers up to the limit of the amount of retained foreign exchange apply) can be transferred abroad up to a max imum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the inves tment yields a convertible currency export surplus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus can be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profit after taxes; the Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of net prof i t. Upon l iqu ida t ion, a foreign investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. A nonres ident investor in a small-scale indus t ry can obtain zloty credits from the Bank PKO for the financing of both current production destined for the domestic market and for exports, and inves tment outlays associated with such production; such credits cannot exceed 30 percent of working capital for current production, and they are limited to a max imum of 30 percent of the estimated cost of the project for inve s tmen t s. A nonres- ident investor is exempt from income tax paymen ts for three years, provided that one third of the tax liability is invested in Poland. The normal tax rate for nonres ident investors is 80 percent, but tax allowances are granted if production is directed to final domestic consumption or for export, as well as when new inves tment projects are under taken. In the latter case, allowances of up to 50 percent of the cost of the project may be granted. In practice, the effective tax rate has averaged 60-65 percent of income. For export production, the investor receives the general exemption from custom duties on imports related to such production. Under the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation, direct investment by nonresidents is also allowed in all but a few sectors (e.g., defense) in the form of joint ventures with local firms. The max imum tax rate on a joint ven ture is 50 percent, and rates as low as 10 percent may be applied, depending on the share of exports in total production. Joint ventures also enjoy an initial tax holiday of two years. Foreign investment by residents, either to establish subsidiaries or affiliates, or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, must be approved by the relevant Minister, as well as by the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign exchange per- mit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. An annual limit of Zl 400,000 is applied to all capital transfers. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the National Bank of Poland to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a nonres ident zloty account. There is no securities market in Poland, and no such transactions are effected. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresidents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only w i th the permission of the foreign exchange authority. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewe lry, is subject to permission from the foreign exchange authorities. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell gold in any fo rm. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The zloty was devalued by 13.5 percent against the U.S. dollar and by 3.3 percent against the transferable and clearing rubles. April 1. The National Bank of Poland began to quote an exchange rate for the SDR. September 1. The zloty was devalued by 19.4 percent against the U.S. dollar and by 4.2 percent against the transferable and clearing rubles. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Provision was made for the establishment of foreign exchange retention rights for exports in trans- ferable rubles with modalities similar to those applying to retention claims resulting from exports in convertible currencies. No accounts have yet been established under the scheme. Imports and Exports January 1. The rates of income tax drawbacks paid to exporters were changed. The rate of income tax relief on the value of exports now ranges from 0-12 percent and that on the incremental value of exports from 0-22.5 percent, compared with the previous rates of 0-6 percent and 0-35 percent, respectively. In the event that the rate of profitability of the export exceeds the projected level owing to other fiscal benef i ts received, or if paymen ts under the Equalization Settlement System are received, the rate of income tax relief may be reduced. Un t il July 1, 1986 actual payments under the scheme were limited to 75 percent of the calculated amoun ts for budgetary reasons. January 1. Additional profits stemming from income tax relief were no longer permitted to be passed on to workers in the form of wage awards exempted from the excessive wages tax. Instead, exporters were granted a direct exemption from the tax on excessive wage increases that is based on the rate of tax relief applied to the particular good exported (15-20 percent) and the share of the exported good in the total value of sales. Capital July 1. Joint ventures between Polish firms and foreign partners were permitted under certain conditions. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted monthly1 in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portugal's international merchandise trade. Periodically, the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo: the monthly rate of depreciation, which was initially set in May 1978 at 1.25 percent but was lowered progressively to 0.50 percent by June 1980, was raised to 1 percent in March 1983, and was temporarily halted from November 1985 to April 1986. It was then resumed at a gradually declining rate (0.9, 0.7, and 0.6 percent for the second, third, and fourth quarter, respectively). On January 1, 1987 the crawling peg rate was set at 0.5 percent. On December 23, 1986 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 147.708 and Esc 148.140, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies2 are quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the basis of U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. There is a tax of 0.6 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 - HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal and among themselves, and they are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad. They have been allowed to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets since May 1986. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized pur- poses, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the au- thorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. 'Since 1977, except from December 1985 to April 1986. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, the ECU, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drach- mas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Foreign trade policy is formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; for statistical purposes, almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to prior registration with the Ministry. The Director- General of Foreign Commerce in this Ministry is respon- sible for administering trade controls. Import declarations are issued by a department within the Directorate General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive departments. State agencies undertaking international trade transactions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 2) or in U.S. dollars. Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into (1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos; and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, the opening of which is subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal. These accounts may be debited or credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for payments for transactions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between Portugal and foreign countries and for transfers between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in Turkey, with which Portugal has a special clearing arrangement, are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established, to which Portuguese bank notes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Ac- counts in Escudos must be credited. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to residents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Portuguese emigrants may open two types of deposit accounts in escudos. The emigrants' savings account is a time deposit and can be opened in nine foreign curren- cies. It may be credited with remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, the equivalent in escudos of external means of paymen ts sold to credit institutions by 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Debits on such accounts are exempt from restrictions. Emigrants' savings accounts are associated with concessional credit facilities not only for housing purposes but also for the establishment and development of industrial agro- livestock, or fishing activities. The other type of emi- grants' deposits —accounts accessible to residents —are similar to residents' deposits and can be both demand and time deposits. Crediting can be made either from abroad (similar to crediting emigrants' savings deposits) or from domestic fund s. Debiting is exempt from restric- tions, except debiting to abroad, which is subject to regulations on capital movements. Interest income from both types of emigrants' deposits is subject to taxation as from April 1985. The initial tax rate of 11.5 percent (inclusive of a surcharge) was lowered to 3.8 percent in August 1985 and to 3.3 percent in 1986. Nonresidents may open time foreign accounts in nine foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad and w i th the related interest due and may be debited w i thout restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations currently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Prior registration (in the form of an import declaration) is required for all imports valued at over Esc 100,000. Import declarations serve statistical purposes, and they are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, mainly for reasons of hea l th, public order, and the prevention of commercial f raud. Any physical or juridical en t i ty may be an importer. Most imports from all sources are effected on the basis of import declarations. For imports free of quan t i ta t ive restriction, the import declaration enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For agricultural products covered by a common market organization, an import certificate may be required as determined by th is organization. For imports subject to restriction, an import license is required. The validity of the import declaration is six mon ths for customs clearance purposes, and the settlement may be effected through the presentation of the declaration of merchandise movement (DMM) up to six months from the date of customs clearance. When the settlement takes place after the six-month period, the operation is subject to the rules governing capital trans- actions. Imports of books up to Esc 30,000 and of newspapers and technical, scientific, or cultural periodi- cals up to Esc 200,000 are also exempt from the import declarations. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. According to the Act of Accession of Portugal to the EC, imports of automobiles and some agricultural prod- ucts are subject to temporary restrictions, when origi- nating in the EC and third countries. As regards other 416 industrial products, there is a list of 25 products that are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions only when originating in third countries. A somewhat more ex tens ive restricted list applies to Japan, which includes manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, inc lud ing motorcycles. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain im- ports, and foreign financing is required for imports of petroleum products and cereals in the total value of imports; the required m in imum maturity of such foreign loans is six mon ths. M in imum proportions of foreign financing and m in imum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made th rough credit ins t i tu t ions authorized to operate in foreign exchange and are generally free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, although prior verification by the Bank of Portugal or other credit ins t i tu t ions properly authorized is required. For most transactions, ceilings are specified for the amoun ts of foreign exchange that authorized credit ins t i tu t ions may grant freely. For paymen ts to countries w i th which Portugal does not ma in ta in special clearing arrangemen ts, the authorized credit ins t i tu t ions may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 500,000 per transaction for most types of invisibles, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portugal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 7.5 million. For tourism and other private travel (except for business trips, for study or medical t rea tment purposes, which are not subject to limits when du ly evidenced), they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equ iva lent of Esc 150,000 a person a t r ip, irrespective of age. In addition, tourists may take out of the coun t ry Esc 50,000 in local currency for each trip .3 The export of larger amoun ts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Applications must be submitted to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for paymen ts of items not referred to above and for paymen ts in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Code, ind iv idual remittances of profits and dividends and the repatriation of proceeds of liquidation of direct foreign inves tment in Portugal are free of restrictions, although prior declaration to the Bank of Portugal is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports, wh ich are not subject to quan t i ta t ive restric- tions under EC regulations, are free of restrictions. The export of some textiles is subject to administrative co- operation with EC countries for a period of three years. The export of a few commodities may be restricted, 3The use of credit cards abroad has been liberalized since Janua ry 2, 1986. However, legislation in force env isages the poss ib i l i ty of reimposing restrictions by the Bank of Portugal whenever deemed necessary. Also, paymen ts of t ravel and accommodation expenses abroad for tour ism purposes have been l ibera l ized, if paid th rough a Portuguese t ravel agency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mainly to ensure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. These exports require an export license, as is the case of iron scraps. Exports w i thout concomm i tant foreign exchange inflow require prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of the export proceeds w i th in specified periods. The period for repatriation of export proceeds is, as a rule, fixed at four mon ths from the date of customs clearance. Should settlement for exports occur later than four mon ths after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the s ix-mon th period from the date of customs clearance will be applied. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad and fre igh t, insurance, or other charges from the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely paymen ts in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have special clearing ar- rangements. Such receipts may be effected through credit institutions and do not require prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Authorized banks are not perm i t ted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coin for settlement of external transactions. There are no limits on the amount of domestic currency notes resident and nonresident travelers may bring into the coun try. Capital As from January 1, 1986, the effective date of accession to the EC, foreign exchange regulations distinguish be- tween capital transactions with residents of EC member countries and residents of non-EC member countries, although in most cases the destination is not relevant in practice. Most paymen ts will be free of restrictions after a transitional period of four to seven years, depending on the type of transaction. Foreign direct inve s tmen ts in Portugal are permitted in all sectors except those wh i ch, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Since July 1986, the new foreign investment regulations stipulate that new direct inves tment projects are only subject to prior declaration to the Foreign Inves tment Ins t i tu te, and will be considered approved in the absence of a reply from the Ins t i tu te w i th in 60 days. However, foreign direct inves tment in the form of long- term loans is subject to a prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. In both cases, in 1986 new foreign direct inves tment by EC residents of less than ECU 1.5 million was automatically approved, and this amount will be increased by 20 percent per annum un t il 1990 when foreign direct investments will be free of restrictions. The transfer of the proceeds of liquidation of foreign direct inves tment including capital gains is free of restrictions. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in EC countries by Portu- guese residents require special authorization un t il 1993, when they will be free of restrictions. PORTUGAL Purchases of real estate in Portugal are free of restric- tions since January 1, 1986, except housing already built or land for agricultural purposes, which are subject to a special authorization by the Bank of Portugal until 1991. The transfer of the proceeds of their liquidation was free of restrictions up to ECU 100,000 in 1986, and it will be increased by ECU 20,000 per annum until 1991. Purchases of real estate in EC countries by Portuguese residents will be free of restrictions from 1993. Purchases by nonresidents of domestic securities quoted in the stock exchange are free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. Purchases by Portuguese residents of securities quoted in the stock exchange and issued by EC residents will remain subject to a special authorization of the Bank of Portugal un t il 1991. However, subscription of securities issued by the European Inves tment Bank, EURATOM, and ECSC was free of restrictions up to ECU 15 million in 1986, and it will be increased by ECU 3 million per annum un t il 1991, when such purchases become free of restrictions. Most trade credits and personal capital movements are also free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. The remaining transactions continue to be subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal and, in the case of loans exceeding Esc 800 million and with a maturity of more than one year, approval of the Minister of Finance is also requ ired. In 1986 Portugal began to revise its reservations to the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements. These revisions will liberalize capital transactions with OECD countries that are free of restrictions with EC countries. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of bullion or coined and unworked gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary author- ities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement April L The system of crawling peg devaluation at a rate of 0.9 percent per month was reintroduced. May 1. Credit ins t i tu t ions were authorized to deal in foreign exchange among themselves and with their foreign correspondents. July L The mon th ly crawling rate was reduced to 0.7 percent. October 1. The mon th ly crawling rate was reduced to 0.6 percent. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Payments for Invisibles January 1. Foreign currency allowance for tourist travel per person per year was increased to Esc 150,000, irrespective of age. December 19. Foreign currency allowance for tourist travel per person per trip was fixed at Esc 150,000. Capital January 1. In accordance with the Act of Accession to EC, the regulations governing capital transactions with residents of EC member countries were modified. Most capital transactions with residents of EC member coun- tries are, or will be (after a transitional period of four to seven years, depending on the type of transaction) free of restrictions. March 4. A new regulation governing the acquisition of land in Portugal by foreign residents was introduced. July 18. New direct inves tment projections in Portugal by nonresidents were subjected to prior declaration to the Foreign Investment Institute. In the absence of a reply from the Institute within 60 days, the project would be considered to have been approved. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 - SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of 0.87 dirham is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U .S. dollar and market rates for the currency con- cerned against the U .S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control au thor i ty, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on paymen ts for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Foreign participation in small- and medium-scale agricultural and industrial enterprises with invested capital of less than QR 250,000 is prohibited. Foreign participation in large-scale enterprises requires Qatar nationals to control at least 51 percent of capital unless the enterprise is viewed as facilitating the provision of a public service, in which case the Qatari participation requirement may be waived. In addition to this require- men t, the enterprise must have a domestic value added of at least 40 percent. Foreigners other than nationals of member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf are prohibited from business ownership in the trade sector. For major industrial projects, it is government policy to assume a m in imum of 70 percent ownership. Nonresident Accounts Gold No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not re- stricted. There are no restrictions on paymen ts for per- mitted imports. Imports of general goods are subject to a customs du ty at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the m in imum rate applied by member countries of the Co- operation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf. The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the selling and buy ing of gold and precious metals are subject to import license and customs du ty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 1. Companies operating in member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf were allowed to export their products to Qatar without the formality of maintaining a local agency. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate used for all trade transactions in convertible currencies is the commercial rate, which is defined in terms of a basket of six currencies reflecting the geo- graphical pattern of Romania's trade and payments. Weekly adjustments are made in the leu/U.S. dollar rate (and correspondingly, in the rates for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to maintain the central point on the basket peg. On December 31, 1986 the commercial exchange rate was lei 15.28 = US$1. The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 16 other currencies defined as "fully convertible"1 and for the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israeli new sheqel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turk ish lira, and the Yugos lav d ina r, based on the rates for these currencies against the U .S. dollar in the countries concerned. For members of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) ,2 Albania, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, the currency used for commercial transactions is the transferab le ruble (TR); on Decem- ber 31, 1986 the transferable ruble rate was lei 15.50 per TR 1. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of payments and receipts for travel arranged through tourist organi- zations, which are considered commercial transactions, and of most capital transactions (excluding transfer of inheritances), nontrade exchange transactions are carried out at the noncommercial exchange rate. Capital trans- actions are settled at the commercial rate. The noncom- mercial rate is pegged to the same basket of currencies as the commercial rate and is also adjusted on a weekly basis; the rate was lei 10.50 = US$1 on December 31, 1986. For the nontransport component of the expenses for individual travel to nonsocialist countries and Yugoslavia and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as per- sonal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, a 100 percent tax is levied on purchases of foreign exchange. For nontrade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, special exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement; for transactions with the U .S .S .R ., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. For persons working abroad in technical assistance jobs or as professionals, such as medical doctors, daily 'Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 420 allowances are paid in foreign exchange, and any accu- mulated surpluses can be converted into lei at the non- commercial exchange rate. Romanians working in inter- national organizations or jo int ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are re- quired to repatriate a part of it as a contribution to the fund for training of staff involved in international coop- eration and for the maintenance of their families at home. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by foreign trade enterprises and other authorized un i ts. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign currency proceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those ag reemen ts .3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made in U.S. dollars under a credit agreement. Permitted foreign paymen ts may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, the National Bank, or with foreign banks having branch offices in Romania. These accounts are of three kinds: A- Accounts are maintained in convertible currency, or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, from the selling of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver. B- Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad in any currency, for paymen ts within the country, and for 3The countries w i th which bilateral paymen ts agreements were in force as of December 31, 1986 were Albania, Bangladesh, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ghana, Ind ia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Settlements w i th Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, the U .S .S .R ., and V iet Nam take place through the multilateral paymen ts system w i th in the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transfers to any other A-, B-, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were derived and for payments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authoriza- tion. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building or purchasing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. For certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Imports and Exports The administrative framework for p lann ing and exe- cuting foreign trade in Romania is provided in the Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 12 of December 1980). International economic ac t iv i ty is organized and carried out in accor- dance w i th the principle of working people's self- management and self-administration of economic, finan- cial, and foreign exchange. The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but distinguishes between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade un i ts, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, ROMANIA annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enterprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral payments arrange- men ts, and, in the latter case, the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for inves tment in complex installations (assem- blies, subassemblies, machinery, equipment, and spare parts) are delivered to the buying units at domestic prices that are equal to the customs value (calculated by mul- tiplying the external price by the commercial rate), plus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices, less the commercial discount. The difference between prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade un i t. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. Customs duties are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 tariff positions and subpositions. The customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Decree No. 337/1981, issued on November 26,1981, increased tariffs on personal imports of certain items into Romania above the value limits for the specified goods. The import goods prohibited to individuals include passenger cars with high fuel consumption, minibuses, firearms, and air conditioners. Customs duties on personal imports of a number of consumer durables, such as motorcycles and electrical appliances, are levied at rates of between 100 percent and 300 percent above the applicable customs tariff. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or individual authori- zation given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside the socialist countries, an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Ro- manian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. With specified exceptions, travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "ac- ceptable" currencies)4 during their stay in Romania. This 4The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA requirement does not apply to (1) holders of diplomatic service passports and their families; (2) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Ro- mania and their families; (3) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (4) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (5) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations having their headquarters in Romania; (6) children under 14; (7) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scientific cooperation and their families; (8) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (9) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (10) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (11) Romanian citizens possessing a valid Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (12) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Romanian citizenship; and (13) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories (10)-(12). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible curren- cies. Foreign tourists may purchase domestically pro- duced and certain imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited, with the exception of those coming from CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; these latter may each bring in or take out up to lei 500 a trip in accordance with agreements concluded with these countries. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Outward kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Israeli sheqalim, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain established cat- egories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establishment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 percent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guar- antee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement, the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The commercial and noncommercial exchange rates were devalued against the basket. The new rates were set at lei 17.50 (commercial rate) and lei 12.50 (noncommercial rate) per US$1, representing in each case a depreciation of 13.7 percent compared with the rates established during the preceeding weekly fixing. July 1. The commercial and noncommercial exchange rates were revalued against the basket. The new rates were set at lei 16.00 (commercial rate) and lei 11.00 (noncommercial rate) per US$1, representing a revalua- tion of 8.8 percent and 13.0 percent, respectively, com- pared with the rates established during the preceeding weekly fixing. September 25. Foreign trade organizations that had been governed by the various sectoral ministries were put under control of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 102.71 = SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the midpoint between buy ing and selling exchange rates quoted by the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The National Bank of Belgium informs the National Bank of Rwanda daily of the rates quoted in London for the currencies making up the SDR baske t, and th is information is used by the National Bank of Rwanda to calculate the rate of the SDR in terms of the U .S. dollar and the rate of the U .S. dollar in terms of Rwanda f rancs. The National Bank of Belgium also reports the rates quoted in Brussels for the various currencies, inc lud ing the U .S. dollar, wh ich enables the National Bank of Rwanda to calculate the rates of those currencies in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1986 the midpoint between the buy ing and selling rate for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U .S. dollar was RF 84.18 per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent above and 1 percent below the m idpo in t, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central b ank; au thor i ty to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange and foreign trade policies are, in prin- ciple, de term ined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Comm i t tee, consisting of the Minister of Fi- nance, the Governor of the National B ank, and five other members; however, th is Committee is inoperative at the present time. Prescription of Currency The National Bank has concluded agreements w i th the central banks of the other members of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lake Countries (Burundi and Zaire), under which settlements are made through recip- rocal accounts in domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of Preferential Trade Area (PTA) (Burund i, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Maur i t ius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swazi- land, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) are made through the PTA's clearing house. Otherwise, paymen ts for imports mu st be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, wh ich, in principle, is the currency of the coun try of origin. Paymen ts from any coun try may be received in Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deu tsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Foreign paymen ts, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange transactions with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. For reasons of public security, imports of a few types of goods, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval by the competent authorities regardless of origin and value. Imports of narcotics are prohibited. All imports valued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, if payment is required in foreign exchange. Imports of household goods and personal effects of nonresidents and resident expatriates do not require licenses. Import licen- ses for 15 items, including cement, butter, cheese, cor- rugated iron, plastic products, blankets, toilet and pow- dered soap, candles, and insecticides, have been temporarily suspended. Effective May 23, 1986, import licenses for woven fabrics of man-made fibers (discontinuous or falling under tariff heading 56.07) have been suspended. For a number of consumer goods, mostly luxu ry goods, the validation of import licenses for payment in foreign exchange is subject to the opening at an authorized bank of an interest-bearing time deposit account for 100 percent of the c. & f. value of imports. The deposits are for three mon ths in the case of imports by air or when the country of origin has a common border with Rwanda or with Kenya; in o ther cases, the deposit period is six mon ths. Exempted from the import deposit obligation are imports by government bodies and imports of food and beverages by the hotels. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 percent of the f.o.b. value on import licenses that invo lve use of official foreign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to inspection by international agencies; the validation fee is 0.1 percent for fue l. The validation of other import licenses is subject to a pro- cessing fee of RF 750 in each case. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. Unless otherwise specified, the approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous op- eration; these are valid for three mon ths (six mon ths in the case of vehicle parts). Global licenses cannot cover both goods subject to the opening of a time deposit account and goods exempted from it. License applications are examined at the National Bank to avoid overinvoicing. Dealers in imported automobiles are required to provide after-sale service for the vehicles. Used automobiles can 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agencies for quality and quantity in the country of origin1 prior to shipment, and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda invest- ment code grants special concessions to enterprises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) con- nected with imports and exports. Transfers of the salaries or wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and after deduction of local expenses (calculated by one of two formu las, at the employee's option), namely, (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay after tax and social security contributions, with a m in imum of RF 50,000 a mon th; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed, whether engaged in a profession or established as inde- pendent traders, are also made net of taxes and after deduction for local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is levied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a m in imum of RF 750. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made un t il imported goods have been cleared through customs (ex- cept in cases of payment by means of documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company established under Rwanda law. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. •Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burkina Faso, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of China, Comoros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. 424 Authorizations for the purchase of foreign exchange for tickets and foreign exchange relating to travel for leisure, fam i ly, or religious reasons are suspended un t il fu r ther notice. Travel for bus iness and official purposes is re- stricted to the essential m in imum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one economy-class airline ticket every two years of actual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is permitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full-fare ticket. Remittances for paymen ts for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the Na t ional Bank to take out foreign bank notes. Non res ident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank notes brought with them upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A declaration is valid for three mon ths, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to de term ine the conditions for certification. Paymen ts for exports to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the coun try; this deadline is not applicable to exports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrange- ment among the central banks. The max imum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in eight days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in eight days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services performed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the due date. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Declaration of means of payment on entering Rwanda is optional. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic bank notes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior ap- proval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfer relates to a foreign inves tment in Rwanda that is covered by the Inve s tment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national re tu rn ing to his own coun t ry. Enterprises considered to have national ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA economic priority are exempted from the corporation tax for 5 to 15 years. Repatriation of dividends to foreign shareholders is allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two mon ths. Outward transfer of proceeds from sales of real . . . J J T -- £ • r • ± • estate is suspended. Foreign refinancing of imports is subject to guidelines limiting the number of eligible products, establishing a limit of 180 days from the date of shipment on the maturity of the financing, and speci- fy ing acceptable interest rates and commissions. Gold Trade ln 8°ld ls restricted to dealers approved by the Jj^Jf1' m'mSter' ImP°rtS ^^ g reqmre 6 _ ,_ ^ . ^«^ Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments May 23. Import licenses for woven fabrics of man- made fibers (discontinuous or waste) falling under tariff heading 56.07 were temporarily suspended. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Car- ibbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates were EC$2.6949 and ECS2.7089, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3, 1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts can only be credited with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis, and can be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another CAR- ICOM country.2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of docu- mentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control ap- proval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the !The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 426 currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For business travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year per company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$ 1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, provided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7 Vz percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and dividends may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of registration by the Com- missioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB Currency Account or an ap- proved U.S. dollar Foreign Currency Account. Duties are levied on exports of lobster, sugar, and certain other products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up residence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets, with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by nonresi- dents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, subject to the discharge ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold both for numismatic and industrial purposes. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 - US$1. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were ECS2.6949 and EC$2.7089, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 2 percent. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payment for goods and services in a currency different from that of the country to which payment is to be made. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, includ- ing payment for imports. As funds in an External Account are normally convertible to a foreign currency, deposits 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Angu i l la, An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev i s, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. 428 to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Foreign Currency Accounts A Foreign Currency Account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Car- ibbean dollar. With the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance and Planning, residents or nonresidents may open Foreign Currency Accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make f requent paymen ts abroad. A resident or nonresi- dent (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or institution) wishing to open a Foreign Currency Ac- count must apply to the Ministry of Finance and Planning through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and paymen ts in the desired foreign currency. All paymen ts from a Foreign Currency Account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance and Planning a mon th ly statement of account, together with full details of paymen ts and receipts. This is to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign cur- rency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import licenses. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. St. Lucia applies the rules of origin of merchandise adopted by the CARICOM in June 1981. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs en try. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertili- zers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) countries, certain imports for use in indus try, agriculture, fishing, air and sea transport (under industrial incentive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aids Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordi- nance. The rates of import du ty in the ECCM tariff begin at a m in imum of 5 percent and are scheduled to be brought in line with the CARICOM common external tariff sometime in the fu tu re; the duties on bay rum and firearms are 70 percent. Imports other than milk, milk products, baby food, approved school books, fertilizers, and agricultural chemicals are subject to a stamp du ty of 7 percent of c.i.f. value; among the other items, the rate is Vs of 1 percent for fertilizer imports; 5 percent for milk, milk ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution products, and baby food; and 3 percent for certain approved school books. For cigarettes the stamp duty is 15 percent of the c.i.f. value. Certain imports are subject to consumption tax; the tax base is c.i.f. value plus import du ty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from au- thorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For travel within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago cur- rency), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance premiums are subject to tax as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any destination. Proceeds from exports mus t, ST. LUCIA in principle, be surrendered. A du ty of EC$0.0025 a pound is levied on exports of bananas. A special fee (called a terminal through-put charge) of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Travelers to St. Lucia may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a higher rate in the case of nonresident purchasers. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 - US$1. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. The sale of foreign exchange by com- mercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import paymen ts and certain other paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in Eastern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country con- cerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the M in is try of Finance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other External Accounts. Except w i th the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and paymen ts by res iden ts may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for paymen ts abroad and to residents, without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the M in is try of Finance by the operating banks. 'The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Angu i l la, An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev i s, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Angu i l la, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. 430 Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and paymen ts by resi- dents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad w i thout prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to a 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the M in is try of Finance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest cate- gory covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete w i th typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM, and the East Caribbean Common Market4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete w i th locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen tary evidence and, when requ ired, of the license. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for trave l, medical t rea tmen t, education, subscription and membe rsh ip fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other paymen ts exceeding EC$100 require approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equ iva lent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for bus iness trave l, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased with the authorization of the M in is try of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover ex- penses for medical trea tment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance upon presentation of a written statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the t rea tmen t. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the t rea tmen t. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 per trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. V incent and the Grenadines, whether or not the ticket is purchased in the coun try. 4The East Ca r ibbean Common Ma rket is composed of An t igua and Barbuda, Dom in ica, Grenada, Mon t se r ra t, S t. K i t ts and N e v i s, S t. Luc ia, and St. V incent and the Grenadines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Students attending educational institutions overseas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Documentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the ins t i tu t ion is required. Transfers of f u n ds within the ECCB area require autho- rization of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the M in is try of Trade, which in some cases has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surren- dered. A 3 percent export du ty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES purposes is not normally perm i t ted. On presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is being taken in a foreign coun t ry, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Transfer of sums exceeding EC$20,000 a year is not normally permitted. The transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already resident in a foreign country is also limited to EC$20,000 a year. Direct inves tment in St. Vincent and the Grenadines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such inves tment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the inves tmen t. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for num isma t ic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central bank) for the dobra against the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies with respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates were Db 36.0133 and Db 39.4072, respectively, per US$1. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange —namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrange- ments are as follows: on the opening of a letter of credit, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission to the National Bank of 0.5 percent. A stamp du ty of Db 2 per Db 1,000 of import value, plus a flat Db 50, is also payable, as well as a postage levy of Db 50. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 150. On foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, varying according to the particular bank. In addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction, together with a stamp duty of Db 15. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 6.5 percent per annum is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges a commission of 0.25 percent when opening the letter of credit and a further 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addition, a postage levy of Db 500 is charged. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through that Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external pay- ments. 432 Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Under the agreement with the German Democratic Republic covering the period 1986-89, Sao Tome and Principe imports building supplies, equipment, and raw materials for the construction and operation of the brew- ery and ceramics factory, as well as certain consumer goods, especially meat and automobile accessories. The quantity of these goods to be imported is specified in annual protocols under the agreement. In return, Sao Tome and Principe is required to export to the German Democratic Republic specified quantities of cocoa and copra annually. Transactions under the paymen ts agreement with Cape Verde have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as receipts and pay- ments for various services and transfers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other reciprocal noninterest credits of US$200,000; it also states tha t, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six mon ths, the imbalance will be redressed by appropriate trade transactions between the two parties. Imports and Import Payments The state-owned foreign trading enterprise (ECOMEX), which un t il September 1985 had exclusive authority for most import activity, issues its own import licenses, but these must be approved by the National Bank. Exceptions to this exclusive authority are fuels and lubricants (im- ported by EMCO, the fuel enterprise), medications (im- ported by ENAMED, the pharmaceutical enterprise), and inputs for three foreign-financed projects. In these non- exclusive cases, import licenses must also be approved by the National Bank. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Registration Bulle- tins, which are valid for six mon ths, but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply and economic development requirements. Prepay- ment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved within limits established by the National Bank. These limits, which allow for additional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remittances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Governmen t; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, costs of communication with foreign countries, etc. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Individual expenditures on airline tickets by private citizens for travel abroad may not exceed Db 40,000 in value over a three-year period. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the paymen ts of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 10,000 for a period of one month. Transfers of pension paymen ts or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances before 1980. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student may receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts may be granted if approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent of value, or 4 percent if payment is made through a telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 20 is payable on all transactions. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum declared upon entry. For this purpose, it is SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE expected that the daily expenses of a tourist will not be less than Db 3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which specify the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. The state-owned foreign trading enterprise (ECOMEX) is responsible for all export activity. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the new Investment Code (implemented in April 1986). Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in activities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accor- dance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authori- zation by the National Bank. Changes During 1986 Capital April 1. A new foreign investment code was implemented. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around the fixed relationship; these margins were suspended on Ju ly 22, 1981. The middle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, quoted by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the International Monetary Fund's daily calculation of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1986 the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.750 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.740 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not requ ired, and exchange for paymen ts abroad may be obtained freely. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security; importation of certain other items in specified forms is also prohibited. Some imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 7 percent and 20 percent; imports from member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) are exempted, pro- vided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that the capital of the producing firm is at least 51 percent owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Certain imports from Lebanon are subject to proof of origin requ iremen ts. 'In addition, all imports from these coun tr ies and all exports to these countries are proh ib i ted; paymen ts may not be made to them or be received from them for all types of transac t ions whe ther of a current or capital na ture. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items benef i t ing from government subs idy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from inv is ib les are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian bank notes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. Local banks are prohibited from inv i t ing foreign banks to par- ticipate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions in- side or outside Saudi Arabia w i thout prior approval of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for participation by local banks in either riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad or foreign-currency-syndicated transac- tions arranged for non res iden ts. The Foreign Capital Inves tment Law provides for specified bene f i ts to be extended to approved foreign inves tmen ts in Saudi Ara- bia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Indus t ry. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects w i th at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Borrowing from foreign banks is subject to a withholding tax on the repatriation of interest earnings. Gold The monetary authorities and all other res iden ts, in- cluding private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and without payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the exception of 14-karat gold, the import of wh ich is prohibited. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion (WAMU) and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 An exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill, depending on the amoun t, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, 72 percent of which must be surren- dered to the Treasury through the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Bur- kina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval au thor i ty in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries pub- lic, any information necessary to compile balance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Export authorizations and prior import authorizations are issued for listed products by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account coun t ry, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d ' lvo i re, Mali, N iger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member coun tr ies of the Un ion are subject to a m in imum flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts between agencies of the BCEAO. the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Ni- geria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank 's foreign corre- spondent; such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain goods is prohib- ited from all countries except member states of the West African Economic Commun i ty (WAEC). The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of prior authorization and quan- titative restriction. Imports of virtually all goods from EEC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC), the Un i ted States, and Canada are free of quantitative restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of certain goods from countries outside the EEC, the French Franc Area, or the West African Economic Community are subject to prior authorization. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c . i .f .). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment if a documentary credit is opened, or the due date for settlement if the commod i t ies have already been imported (if no docu- mentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL bill of lading). Furthermore, paymen ts for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized interme- diary banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange author- ization submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); any foreign ex- change remaining after re turn to Senegal must be surren- dered. Applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applica- tions for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be taken. The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths following the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allo- cation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, bu t, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of foreign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tuna fish), exports to 436 countries in the French Franc Area are free of prior authorization. Most exports to other countries require authorization mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Certain nontraditional exports to nonmember countries of the Economic Commun i ty of West Africa are eligible for an export subsidy equ iva lent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, including members of the West African Monetary Un ion and countries of the French Franc Area, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated not later than one mon th after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to the customs upon en try and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior au- thorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Governmen t, and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been autho- rized. With the exception of controls over foreign secu- rities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing abroad. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other inv e s tm en t s, wh e th er these are Sene- galese investments abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments constitute inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) borrow ings con s t i tu t ing a direct in- ves tmen t, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) borrowings contracted by au- thorized banks. The repayment of borrowings not con- stituting a direct inves tment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance if the borrowing itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if it was exempt from authorization. The Inves tment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export indus t r ies estab- lished in the Dakar export-processing zone. Including inves tmen ts made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. including those made by companies in Senegal wh ich are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. SENEGAL Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance to conduct their busi- ness. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization by the Minister of Commerce, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Corporation for the Promotion of Art Handicrafts (Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de I'Artisanat d'Art) and the Direc- torate of Mines and Geology. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments February 28. Quantitative restrictions on certain items not produced locally were removed. August 4. The "normal fiscal tariff was reduced by 10 percentage points to a rate of 30 percent; the "increased fiscal tariff was reduced by 15 percentage points to a rate of 35 percent; and the "special fiscal tariff was reduced by 10 percentage points to a rate of 65 percent. August 14. Quantitative restrictions on certain metals and machinery imports not produced locally were lifted. September 17. It was announced that from October 1, quantitative restrictions would be eliminated on imports of packing papers and cardboard. Exports and Export Proceeds August 4. A revised export subsidy scheme was intro- duced for a range of items. The subsidy rate was set at a level of 25 percent and based on industrial value added at international prices. For certain items the subsidy was to be based on a percentage of the f.o.b. export price ranging from 15-50 percent (Law No. 86/87). 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 - SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (including the pound sterling, the intervention currency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U .S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. These rates are circulated daily to the com- mercial banks by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Seychelles for the pound sterling were SR 8.6958 and SR 8.7829, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent for buy ing and 0.875 percent for selling of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no pre- scription of currency requirements. The Seychelles Mar- keting Board exercises controls on foreign trade and domestic marketing; its Import Division and Import Con- trol Unit perform regulatory and commercial roles pre- viously handled by the Seychelles National Commodity Corporation (SEYCOM). Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for imports. Importers are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Au thor i ty and to apply for import permits from the Import Control section of the Seychelles Marketing Board. Certain basic food items (including sugar, flour, oil margarine, rice, and animal feeds) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade and service tax, at rates ranging from 10 to 350 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses. Exports of copra, c innamon, and fish (the principal exports) are 438 controlled by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Residents may export goods without exchange control formality to any coun try except South Africa. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be disposed of freely. However, trading in foreign currencies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are al- lowed without limit. Non-nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New inves tment outside Seychelles by permanent res- idents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any l im i ta t ion. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct inves tmen t, in- creased inves tment in existing entities in the form of loans, or equ i ty capital) is not restricted. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to non-nationals primarily for working capital purposes only and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, i .e ., agriculture and fishing, man- ufacturing, construction, and tour ism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Two commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 have been issued and are legal tender. Ano ther gold coin in the denom ina t ion of SR 20 issued in December 1983 in commemoration of the fifth ann iversary of the found ing of the Central Bank is also legal tender, and a four th issue (in the denomination of SR 25) was made in April 1984 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Two other gold coins, also legal tende r, were issued in 1986: (1) in February, to commemorate the Un i ted Nations Decade for Women Coin Program (in the denom ina t ion of SR 500); and (2) in June, to mark the ten th ann iversary of Seychelles' independence (in the denom ina t ion of SR 1,000). Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The application of the Customs Tariff Act was suspended and customs du t ies were replaced by a trade and service tax. The new tax preserves exemptions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution previously granted under the tariff sys tem. Rates vary from 10 to 350 percen t ,1 with the bulk of imported 'The Act was amended on November 4, 1986, at which time the max imum rate was increased from 250 percent to 350 percen t. commodities taxed at rates ranging from 10 to 50 percent, The new tax is levied on the basis of landed price plus wholesale markup (the customs tariff was applied to 1 H H ' "I landed price;. SEYCHELLES 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone. On June 27, 1986 a flexible exchange rate system was introduced, and the previous system of a fixed peg of the leone to the SDR was abolished. The Bank of Sierra Leone holds weekly fixing sessions with the com- mercial banks at which an indicative exchange rate is determined, and this rate is used during the following week for all official transactions, including valuation for customs du ty. The indicative rate is to be determined as the marginal rate that equates the supply of and demand for foreign exchange by the commercial banks at the fixing sessions. If there are no offers for sale at the fixing session, the latest rate quoted by commercial banks in their interbank trading or, in the absence of interbank trading, the weighted average of actual rates traded between the commercial banks and their customers in the previous week is used to determine the indicative rate. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Bank of Sierra Leone, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone with the assistance of the commercial banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry under an open general license system. Authority for approving transactions of items under open general licenses and most invisible payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the bilateral payments agreement. Pay- ments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account, in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Maur- itania, and Nigeria are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an External Account, in the currency of the importing country, or in any specified currency.1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 440 in any other specified currency and surrendered through the banking system of Sierra Leone. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone are designated External Accounts. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments All goods, with the exception of a list of prescribed items —ammunition, drugs, cartridges, and gambling ma- chines, and imports from Namibia and South Africa— may be imported under open general licenses that are issued freely. Authority for approving transactions is delegated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchase of foreign exchange for the importation of goods must be supported by a valid import license and pro forma invoice and be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Letters of credit must be opened within three working days of the purchase of foreign exchange; if not, foreign exchange is resold to the commercial bank and a penalty of 0.25 percent a day is imposed. Imports are subject to an invoice en try fee and an import licensing fee of 10 percent calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports, which are payable at the time of importation; the rate for imports from countries belonging to the Economic Com- mun i ty of West African States is 5 percent. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks within the following guidelines. Foreign exchange up to US$100 per individual per month may be freely sold by the commercial banks. Requests for purchases of foreign exchange in excess of this amount must be supported by adequate documentation. Applications for basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 a year per adult person must be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some products, the exportation of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all products to all countries except Namibia and South Africa. All exports must be effected either under letters of credit opened with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone or on a collection basis through a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. All exporters are required to complete CD.2 forms and secure an export license from the Government relating to specific goods or services to be exported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The retention privileges that had in the past been accorded various exporters of goods and services have been abolished, without exception, effective June 27, 1986. All exporters are now required to fully surrender exchange earnings to the commercial banks. The marketing of gold and diamonds is carried out by locally licensed firms and three foreign companies under the supervision of the Government Gold and Diamond Office (GGDO). The Bank of Sierra Leone is authorized to buy and export gold on its own account, and the Ministry of Mines licenses other exporters. Unmarked gold is subject to a 3 percent export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 30 days. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign currency. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 20 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonresidents may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, subject to foreign exchange availability and provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 im- poses control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security reg- istered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresi- dent. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certifi- cation of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act, 1983, provide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell their foreign ex- change holdings to an authorized dealer. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities SIERRA LEONE purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit re- quirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Holdings of working balances in foreign exchange by commercial banks are subject to ceilings; foreign exchange inflows above the permitted limits must be surrendered to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, licenses are required for purchases and sales of gold in any form other than jewelry; residents must declare and make available to the Government gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement June 27. A flexible exchange rate system was intro- duced, under which the Bank of Sierra Leone holds weekly fixing sessions with the commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments June 27. All goods, with the exception of a list of prescribed items (ammun i t ion, drugs, cartridges, and gambling machines, and imports from Namibia and South Africa) were allowed to be imported under open general licenses, and the Specific Import License List was abol- ished. Authority for approving transactions was delegated to the commercial banks. June 27. An invoice entry fee and an import licensing fee were reduced from 12 percent to 10 percent of the c.i.f. value, respectively. Payments for Invisibles June 27. Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses was delegated to the commercial banks. Commercial banks may sell freely up to US$100 per individual per month. Exports and Export Proceeds June 27. All retention quotas were abolished, and all exporters were required to fully surrender exchange earnings to the commercial banking system. June 27. The exportation of gold was restricted to the GGDO and the Bank of Sierra Leone. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Singapore dollar is permitted to float, and the Monetary Authority of Singapore monitors its value against a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. The Interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1986 were S$2.1745 and S$2.1755, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currencies. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign currency fu tures are traded at the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry admin- isters and registers imports and exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa or any territory ad- ministered by it are prohibited. Import licenses are re- quired for the following items, irrespective of origin: (1) rice, air-conditioning machines not exceeding 9,000 KCAL/ H (excluding air-conditioning machines for motor vehi- cles); and (2) all goods originating in or consigned from Albania, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. License applications for goods under the second category are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports, payable to the Government. 442 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonres- idents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain textiles and garments of Singapore origin to countries of the European Communities, Austria, Canada, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and the United States are subject to quantitative restriction in the importing countries. Export licenses are required for granite, sand, timber, and rubber. Export proceeds need not be surren- dered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surren- dered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents or to residents for use outside Singapore require the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Gov- ernment approval is required for foreigners investing in residential and other properties (including vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely pur- chase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development w i thout such approval. With regard to other residential properties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accom- modation of their senior personnel. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Currency Units (ACUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with their ACUs because of the absence of mini- mum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An ACU is a separate accounting entity of a financial institution, which enjoys a concessional rate of tax of 10 percent on its income; it is prohibited from transacting in Singapore dollars. Income earned by nonresidents on funds placed by them with approved fund managers in Singapore for investment in certain approved assets in the domestic market is exempted from tax under the tax exemption ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE scheme for offshore fund management, which came into effect in June 1986. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold free ly; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can be traded on the spot or fu tures markets. In the spot marke t, most of the trading is done on a London basis where delivery of 995 fine gold is made in London; trading also takes place in Kilobar gold with settlement of 999.9 fine gold being made in Singapore, with appropriate adjustments made for the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold fu tures contract is also available on the Singapore Inter- national Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar, up to a total of 2 percent during any four-week period. Daily quotations for the four currencies in the basket (the pound sterling, the Japanese yen, the Austra- lian dollar, and the U.S. dollar), as well as for the deutsche mark and the SDR, are provided by the Central Bank, which also sets limits on the buying and selling rates of commercial banks for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings with the public were US$0.5049 and US$0.5019, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates extensive powers to com- mercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Central Bank. Appli- cations for temporary resident status are normally ap- proved if the person is a citizen of a foreign country and intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near fu ture. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indicates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obli- gation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. 444 Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands that are expressed in a foreign currency may only be met by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Sol- omon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required for the crediting of these accounts from Solomon Islands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions without reference to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing permanently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Central Bank. Trav- elers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control formality, provided that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this General Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within three months before or after the date of export, that the export price is reasonable, and that the proceeds are sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for a Specific Authority. Au thor i ty is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange con- trol approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of non-resident-owned investment capital, repayment of overseas borrowings, and the re- mittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' fund s. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Central Bank is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Approval is normally not given for the acqui- SOLOMON ISLANDS sition of overseas portfolio inves tmen ts. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonres- ident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the Foreign Investment Board in the Prime Minister's Office must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments May 27. Imports of rice, which had been in the hands of a parastatal monopoly, were liberalized. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling. So- malia's exchange arrangement consists of three exchange markets: the official market, the free market, and the auction market. In the official market, the exchange rate is adjusted periodically by the Central Bank largely on the basis of relative price movements in Somalia and abroad. On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were, respectively, So. Sh. 89.5950 = US$1 and So. Sh. 91.4050 - US$1. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other ''convertible" curren- cies,1 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The official exchange market in Somalia com- prises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank operating as the authorized dealer of the Central Bank in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. On the receipt side, the official rate applies to the surrendered portion of export proceeds, official loans, grants and investment income, and foreign exchange receipts of embassies and international organizations other than or- ganizations belonging to the United Nations; and on the payment side, it applies to central government imports, official travel, expenses of Somali embassies abroad, official imports of crude petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and the operational costs of the Central Bank. All other transactions are conducted in the free market or the auction market. Exchange transactions in the free market take place through U.S. dollar-denominated, external, export- promotion, and import accounts. The commercial bank does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Agricultural Sector Ad jus tment Program credits of the International Development Association (IDA) are disbursed through auctions that are held twice a mon th. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade controls. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through bilat- eral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling.2 Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (including the U.S. dollar, see footnote 1); however, residents are 'Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. 2This bilateral paymen ts agreement has been inoperative since 1977. 446 not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by foreign embassies and international institutions. External accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both residents and nonresidents. Such accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment and for transfers to other external accounts. Exporters of goods and services may deposit up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports in export-promotion accounts. Funds in such accounts may be used for merchandise import paymen ts, invisible paymen ts under existing regulations, or be deposited in an import account. Import accounts in foreign exchange may be opened by both residents and nonresidents and credited from export-promotion accounts, external ac- counts, or from transfers of foreign exchange from abroad. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be used for merchandise import paymen ts, invisible paymen ts w i th in existing regulations, or for transfers into other import accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco, and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceutical products, explo- sives, precious metals and jewe lry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The state- trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. The Somali Oil Ref inery is responsible for the import of crude petroleum, while the National Petroleum Agency is re- sponsible for imports of other fue ls and fuel products. Importation and distribution of petroleum products by capable entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at the commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the letter of credit. Alter- natively, the commercial bank may sell foreign exchange to private importers at the prevailing market rate. A noninterest-bearing advance deposit up to 100 percent of value may be required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained up to the settlement date of the letter of credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Paymen ts for current invisibles through export-promotion and import accounts, as well as through the commercial bank selling foreign exchange on its own account, are subject to licensing to prevent unau thor ized capital trans- fers. There are no controls on invisible paymen ts if they are made with foreign exchange through an external account. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by en- terprises registered under the Foreign Inves tment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. Transfers for education are allowed w i th in the limit of US$1,500 per s tudent per year. A traveler is automatically en t i t led to an allowance of US$200 per trip. In add i t ion, depending on availability of foreign exchange, a traveler is entitled to an allowance of up to US$50 per traveling day with a max imum of US$1,000 per trip, depending on the purpose of travel. The Central Bank considers applications for larger allow- ances or other invisibles on the basis of documentation and processes such applications w i th in one week after submission. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously the National Banana Board). The export of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters may retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export-promotion accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer within five business days after the ir receipt. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 30 percent of the value of exports is requ ired. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of m in imum export prices used for purposes of du ty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to repatriation and declaration. Exporters of services may retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export- promotion accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer w i th in five business days after their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the coun try. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coin and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial bank at the prevailing market rate w i th in five days. SOMALIA Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Inve s tment Law of Feb- ruary 1960, as amended in January 1977. In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Directorate of Planning and Co- ordination. For "productive" enterprises (as defined in the Foreign Inves tment Law), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to an annual limit of 30 percent of invested capital; unused portions of transfer rights can be cumulated for three years; and should the profit in any one year be less than 30 percent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign inves tmen ts may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the capital inves ted, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption from import and export taxes, excise du ty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding five years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 mus t, to the largest possible ex ten t, employ residents, and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Inves tmen ts a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resident employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for nu- mismatic purposes on ly, gold coins that are not legal tender in any coun try. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one mon th to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs du ty when originating in EC coun tr ies; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent du ty. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate of the Somali shilling was adjusted in a series of steps during the year, from So. Sh. 54.50 = US$1 to So. Sh. 90.50 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 40 percent. September 1. Fortnightly foreign exchange auctions of IDA credits for the Agricultural Sector Ad jus tment Pro- gram began to be held. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions but in te rvene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commercial" rand. The prin- cipal in te rven t ion currency is the U .S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the commercial banks' spot rates for the U .S. dollar in transactions w i th the public were US$0.4570 buy ing and US$0.4560 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, inc lud ing cover for trans- actions by non res iden ts, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U .S. dollars on ly; such cover is given to authorized dealers for ma tur i t ies not exceeding 12 mon ths at a time in the form of rand-U .S. do l lar swap transactions w i th a margin based on an interest rate d ifferen t ial between the U.S. dollar and the rand. The Reserve Bank also provides forward cover contracts in U .S. dollars for longer ma- turities for governmen tal and o ther public sector in s t i tu- tions, such as public corporations.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Abolished on February 7, 1983 and reintroduced on September 2, 1985 (w i thout the participation of Swazi- land), the free ly floating "financial" rand derives from the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other inves tmen ts in South Africa owned by nonres iden ts (other than former residents of South Africa), capital remittances by emigrants and imm ig ran ts, and approved outward capital transfers by res iden ts. The exchange rate for the financial rand is usua l ly at a d iscount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1986, the discount was about 52 percen t, and the closing m idpo int exchange rate of the financial rand in te rms of the U .S. dollar on December 31 was R 4.60 = US$1. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund 's Articles of Agreemen t, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v ir tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (de f ined for ex- change control purposes as inc lud ing South West Africa), Bophu tha tswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Swaz i land, Transkei, and Venda, and these fo rm, w i th the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control te r r i to ry: the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treasury, which has delegated th is au tho r i ty to the South Afr ican 'As from J a n u a ry 1, 1987, the Re se rve Bank no longer p rov ides long- te rm forward cover to pub l ic sector and gove rnmen tal i n s t i t u t i o n s. 448 Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its licensing powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export perm i ts are issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the M in is ter of Economic Affairs and Technology. Exchange for li- censed impor ts is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of sh ipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen ta ry evi- dence, wh ich must inc lude the prior approval of the Reserve Bank .2 Arrears are ma in ta ined with respect to certain external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency All coun tr ies outside the Common Mone tary Area cons t i tu te the Non res ident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.3 Se t t lemen ts by res iden ts of the Common Monetary Area w i th the Nonres ident Area may be made in rand to and from a Non res ident Account and in any specified cu r rency4 and, for outgoing paymen ts on ly, in any foreign cu r rency .5 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Common Mone tary Area are d iv ided in to Non res ident Accoun ts, Financial Rand Accoun ts, and Blocked Accoun ts. Nonresident Accounts are he ld by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) res iden t, dom ic i led, or reg- istered ou ts ide the Common Mone ta ry Area. They may be credited w i th all au thor ized p aym en ts by South Afr ican res iden ts, w i th the proceeds of sales to au thor ized dealers in South Africa of specified cu r rency, and with paymen ts from other Non re s ident Accoun ts in South Afr ica. They may be debited for paymen ts to Common Mone tary Area res iden ts for any purpose; for paymen ts to non re s iden ts for any purpose, that is, by t rans fer to a local Non re s ident Accoun t, or for rem i t tance to any coun t ry ou ts ide the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign cu r rency; and for paymen ts to the account Authorized dealers can perm i t, w i thout Reserve Bank approval, ad- vance payment of up to 331/3 percent of the ex-factory cost of capital goods, if such is the requ irement of suppliers. 3L i langeni bank no tes issued by Swaz i land are f ree ly conv e r t ib le in to r and, but t h ey a re not legal tender in South A f r ica. Ma lo ti b ank no tes issued by Leso tho a re f r e e ly conv e r t ib le i n to rand at par, but t h ey a re not legal tender in South A f r ica. Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish k rone r, deu tsche ma rk, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya sh i l l ings, Malagasy francs, Malawi kwacha, Ne ther lands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zaires, and Zambian kwacha. 5Foreign c u r r e n cy is any cu r r en cy or p a ym e nt i n s t r um e nt for c u r r e n cy o ther t h an a c u r r e n cy th at is legal t end er in a c o u n t ry in the Common Mone ta ry Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution holder while temporarily res ident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of nonres- idents of the Common Monetary Area, other than emi- grants from that Area, to which exchange control restric- tions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited w i th the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, excluding former residents of South Africa. Immigrants (excluding former South African res- idents) arriving after September 1, 1985 may, without Reserve Bank approval, during the first three years of their residence, introduce their capital through the me- dium of the financial rand. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account on their books to another, on their own books, or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for re inves tment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or public utility stocks. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The local sale proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts, with the ex- ception of assets of persons who previously had been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of em igran ts from the Common Monetary Area to wh ich exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the t ime of departure and w i th the proceeds of any other South African asset held at the time of depar ture and subsequen t ly sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to ano ther Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit w i th an authorized dealer, used w i th in certain l im i ts for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or for other specified paymen ts to res iden ts, or be inves ted in any securities that are quoted locally; such securities may no t, however, be exported and sold abroad. Special Restricted Accounts are the accounts of non- res iden ts to wh ich restrictions specifically relating to the debt s tands t i ll arrangements have been app l ied. Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Sched- ule I of the Import Control Regulations published on May 3, 1985. All importers requiring import perm i ts for trade or manufac tur ing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The perm i ts are valid for imports from any coun t ry. Impo r ts free of perm it inc lude all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, SOUTH AFRICA Malawi, and Swaziland, wh ich were g rown, produced, or manu fac tu red in these coun tr ies, w i th the exception of sugar from Swaziland and tea from Malawi. An importer is au toma t ica l ly granted exchange to pay for cu r rent impor ts upon presen t ing to his bank the necessary cons ignment documen ts (proof of importation) and an import permit where requ ired. Paymen ts prior to the date of sh ipment or d ispa tch are not norma l ly allowed, except w i th prior approval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 2). W i th certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 12 percent, as are locally produced goods. Payments for Invisibles Au tho r i ty is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current paymen ts for inv is ib les w i thout l im i ta t ion and for others up to established l im i ts. Appli- cations for amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts are consid- ered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income paymen t s, such as declared d iv id end s, p ro f i ts, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agree- ment was approved by the Depar tment of Trade and Indu s t ry and the Reserve Bank, and provided the remit- tance of prof i ts and d iv idends is based on earnings generated after January 1, 1984 and does not invo lve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from securities held by non- residents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. L im i ted amoun ts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 6,000 for an adult and R 3,000 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 2,000 for an adult (R 1,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries, i .e ., Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, Zim- babwe, and the Indian Ocean islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allow- ances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 500 a day, with a max imum of R 10,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for bus iness trips to the neighboring territories mentioned above is R 4,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 400 a day. Res iden ts leaving South Africa for des t ina t ions outside the Common Monetary Area may take the fu ll applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 200, but these are not regarded as be ing part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes that they brought into the coun try or obtained from the disposal of instru- men ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These l im i ta t ions on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA re tu rn ing to neighboring coun tr ies, who are perm i t ted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commod i t ies considered as being in relatively short supp ly or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits for their sales to buye rs outside the Common Customs Area (combined areas of Bo tswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland). Unless otherwise perm i t ted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered w i th in six months from the date of shipment or seven days f rom the date of accrual. To ensure a more effec t ive application of exchange control procedures regarding the repatriation of export proceeds, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds w i th in seven days of shipment. Au thor ized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit up to 12 mon th s, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export marke t. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemp t ion is obtained. Upon en try from countries outside the Common Monetary Area, res iden ts and nonres iden ts may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital* All inward loan transfers require specific approval,7 while inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to resi- dents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Common Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by non-resident-owned or non-resident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the pur- chase of South African (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from 6For exchange con trol purposes, a non res ident is def ined as a person whose normal place of residence or dom ic i le is ou t s ide the Common Monetary Area. Securities are def ined as inc lud ing not on ly quo ted s tocks, shares, deben tu re s, and rights but also unquo t ed shares in pub l ic com- panies, shares in p r iva te compan ies, gove rnmen t, mun i c ip a l, and pub l ic u t i l i ty stocks, non-res iden t-owned mortgage bonds or par t ic ipa t ions in mortgage bonds. The te rms "scrip" and "share certificates" i n c l u de any temporary or sub s t i tu te do cum en ts of t i t le, such as le t te rs of a l lo tm en t, option cer t if ica tes, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 7Approval is generally g iven for borrowing abroad w i th a m a tu r i ty of at least six mon ths by domes t ic en t r ep r en eu r s, except for specu la t ion or consumer c red i t. Au tho r ized dealers genera l ly are pe rm i t ted to raise f u n ds abroad in the ir own names for the financing of South A f r ican fore ign trade and other approved purposes. 450 existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to pre- vent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term inves tment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Inves t- ments designed to foster exports and to maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Imm igran ts are required to fu rn i sh the exchange control au thor i t ies w i th a complete re tu rn of their foreign assets and liabilities at the t ime of the ir arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Africa may, th rough the same channe l, be retransferred abroad w i th in the first three years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquo ted South African securities, real estate, and other equ i ty invest- men ts by nonres iden ts of South Africa to res iden ts must be credited to Financial Rand Accoun ts and are accord- ingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are en t i t led to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are per- mitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) through the med ium of Financial Rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t. The total net income earned from an em igran t's blocked assets may be t rans fe r red. An emigrant fam i ly or an ind iv idual can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 20,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 20,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's possession for a period of not less than one year. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by non-resident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances,8 of current profits earned after January 1, 1984, and d iv idends declared on profits from trading generated after Janua ry 1, 1984, provided that the rem i t tance does not invo lve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of non-res iden t-owned securities is pe rm i t ted, except by em igran ts on their departure. Gold Res iden ts of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for num isma t ic and inves tment purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the mone tary au tho r i t ies, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus tr ial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, ho ld, or sell gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or 8Sub jec t, howeve r, to the s tands t i ll a r rangemen ts, where app l icab le. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 20,000 (subject to a wr i t ten declaration to the effect that the jewe lry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re tu rn ); and in respect of exports of gold jewe lry by manufac tur ing jewe lers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zim- babwe), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufac tured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Fur thermore, af ter reference and approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to num isma t is ts. The gold mining indu s t ry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank w i th in one mon th of produc t ion. The arrangement whereby the Reserve Bank paid the gold mines in U .S. dollars for 50 percent of the ir total sales, with the balance settled in rand, was cancelled with effect from December 9, 1985. From this date the mines are paid in rand on ly. As a special concession, the indus t ry may retain approximately one th ird of its pro- duction for the minting of gold coins and k i lo bars. The M int from time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand w i thout a face value, wh ich are legal tender but do not circulate in South Africa; these are made available in limited numbe rs to resident collectors, and the bulk is sold abroad. SOUTH AFRICA Changes During 1986 Prescription of Currency April 1. The Trilateral Monetary Agreement between South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland was amended, and the area previously known as the Rand Monetary Area was renamed the Common Monetary Area. The rand ceased to be legal tender in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts August 8. The scope for which financial rand may be used for inves tment purposes was broadened. Imports and Import Payments June 1. Imports from Sweden were subjected to import licensing. July 1. The 10 percent import surcharges on certain imports, including a wide range of foods tu f fs, minerals, chemicals, manufac tur ing components, and spare parts were eliminated. August 6. A cash deposit scheme on goods imported by Zambia through South African ports was introduced. August 8. A new licensing system for imports from Z imbabwe was in troduced. Capital March 25. Interim arrangements with respect to certain debt repaymen ts were concluded with bank creditors. The arrangements are to be effec t ive un t il June 1987. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the foreign exchange markets. However, the authorities in tervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctua- tions in exchange rates and to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange marke t. Following its rou t ine monitoring of foreign exchange market deve lopmen ts in the course of the morning, the Bank of Spain meets each work ing day around noon in an official session w i th the commercial banks, at which the latter trade freely in foreign exchange among themselves. The average exchange rate in these transactions is published by the Bank of Spain for specified currencies,1 and is the official exchange rate used by the banks in their transactions with the pub l ic du r ing the following day, w i th in a margin of ±0 .125 percent set by the Bank of Spain. In addition, each week the Bank of Spain quotes buying and selling rates for bank notes in specified currencies for its own operations. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions related to most current transactions, as well as to amortization of financial credits. Forward cover may be provided to residents for all permitted foreign exchange receipts, import paymen ts, current invisible transactions, and amortization paymen ts. Forward contracts may not exceed 12 mon ths, and for- ward purchases and sales of exchange are restricted to currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange mar- ket and the ECU. The terms of the forward contract must coincide with the terms of the commercial transactions that are being covered. The forward position of an individual bank at the close of each day must not reflect a net buy ing or selling position in U .S. dollars in excess of US$1 million; in French francs, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Italian lire, and Japanese yen in excess of US$0.25 million; and in each of the other convertible currencies in excess of US$100,000. In addition, most commercial banks can freely purchase foreign exchange to cover a forward contract 12 mon ths prior to the ma tu r i ty of contract. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreemen t, as from Ju ly 15, 1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. 'Australian dollars, Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French f rancs, Greek drachmas, Irish pound s, Italian lire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 452 Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an in term in is ter ial commission. The M in is try of Economy and Finance is in charge of administrative func t ions connected with exchange and trade controls, as well as controls over Spanish inve s tment abroad, pr iva te Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the registration of foreign inves tmen ts in Spain. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operative func t ion s, in particular, the hand l ing of external reserves. It is also responsible for the authorization of short-term and long- term loans in foreign currency to res iden ts for non trade purposes. Contracts relating to technological ma t ters must be registered w i th the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry and Energy. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts on account of merchandise transactions and inv is ib les may be made in convertible pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in footnote 1, but they are usua l ly made in the currency of the coun try of origin or des t ina t ion. Nonresident Accounts As from December 1985, accounts affected by the regulations on nonres ident accounts are either convertible accounts or ordinary accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts. Convertible Peseta Ac- counts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency bank notes only in certain cases in the Spanish foreign currency marke t, with authorized paymen ts made by residents to nonres iden ts as a result of any balance of paymen ts transactions, with accrued interest on such accounts, and with transfers from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for pur- chases of equivalent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency marke t, for authorized paymen ts in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of paymen ts transactions, for cash draw- ings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accoun ts can be freely established by authorized banks, and balances are not subject to reserve requ iremen ts. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the Spanish forward exchange market. Ordinary Nonresident Accounts (Royal Decree 1723/ 85 and Resolution of December 20, 1985) can be credited freely. Balances in such accounts, which are not con- vertible, may be utilized to cover tourist expenses in Spain, as well as inves tmen ts that can qualify as foreign inves tmen ts; transfer rights for such inve s tmen t s, financed by ordinary pesetas, require the fu l f i lment of certain conditions (e .g ., a three-year maintenance period for the transfer of principal, proof of the legal origin of the funds deposited, and verification in the General Directorate). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be made freely into Spain. However imports of certain goods are subject to authorization by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin (e.g., color television sets, tractors, explosives, carpets, sewing machines, plas- tics, seed oil, gold, etc.) or when imported from specific geographical areas (with d is t inc t ions being made between EC countries, Portugal, EFTA-Mediterranean and ACP countries, GATT member coun tr ies, and state trading countries). Foreign Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted free ly. All import trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions valued at less than Ptas 0.5 million, provided that payment is to be made w i th in one year. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the au- then t ic i ty of the transaction. Holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued in teres t, d iv idends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights. Purchasers of securities bought with internal pesetas, must hold them for three years to qualify to transfer abroad the proceeds from the liquidation of such securi- ties. Profits and dividends on direct inves tmen ts and rents on non-resident-owned real estate are freely transferable abroad. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain w i th Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and imports of goods and related operations. Paymen ts up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made without any supporting documents. For larger paymen ts, declarations to the Directorate-General of External Transactions in the Ministry of Economy and Finance are required. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of Ptas 120,000 a person a jou rney, with an annual max imum of Ptas 480,000. The authorized banks are free to sell foreign exchange for business travel at company expense up to the equivalent of Ptas 10,500,000 a company a calendar year, but not exceeding Ptas 2,100,000 a person a calendar year or Ptas 300,000 a person a trip, and any amount for travel for education or health care. Travelers may take with them Ptas 100,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. The sale of foreign exchange for amounts in excess of the above limits and for current invisibles not specifically listed requires a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign inves tmen ts are freely transferable abroad, provided they were not financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. SPAIN Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made free ly. How- ever, exports of a limited number of goods require prior authorization by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the area of destination (e .g ., textiles, steel, some copper by-produc ts, etc.) or when exported to certain geographical areas (with d is t inc t ions being made between EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks within 15 days of receipt. Capital For most direct foreign inves tmen ts effected through participation in Spanish companies, prior verification is required only if participation exceeds 50 percent. Irre- spective of the size of companies, such inves tmen ts need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions for verification and can be considered approved in the absence of a response after 30 days. Special authorization is required for foreign investment in strategic sectors (such as defense-related indus tr ies, strategic minerals, and telecommunications services), television, radio, air transpor t, and gambling. Foreign inves tmen ts for the acquisition of branches or real estate are not subject to restriction, if financed with convertible currencies; w i th the same exceptions as for participation in Spanish companies, such investments only need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification, and can be considered as approved in the absence of response after 30 days. Purchases of real estate w i th a balance in Ordinary Nonresident Accounts are considered foreign inves tmen ts, and are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to foreign inves tmen ts made through these accounts. Nonresidents may free ly purchase shares, and bonds; however, issuance by banks of certificates of deposits denominated in convertible pesetas are subject to au- thorization. Short-term commercial suppliers' credits may be contracted without restriction. The contracting of med ium- term suppliers' credits with nonresident EC na- tionals requires prior administrative verification, and the contracting of other types of suppliers' credits is subject to prior authorization. Individuals and juridical persons residing in Spain may freely negotiate financial loans in foreign currency or convertible pesetas, subject to compliance with the fol- lowing conditions: (1) the amount of the loan is not greater than the equivalent of Ptas 750 million on the date the required documentation describing the particulars of the loan is subm i t ted to the Bank of Spain; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least one year, starting from the date of the first d isbursemen t; (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign currencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange marke t, or in convertible 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN pesetas, and will remain in that currency un t il ma tu r i ty; and (4) the resident borrower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending ins t i tu t ion. Loans may be freely amortized one year after the date of d isbursemen t. The borrower may, at any t ime, transfer the domiciliation of the loan to another authorized ins t i tu t ion, in which case, at the request of the borrower, the current authorized institution of domiciliation must transmit directly to the new bank of domiciliation the original Bank of Spain document on which all movements of funds effected through that ins t i tu t ion are recorded. Direct inves tmen ts abroad are def ined according to OECD guidelines, taking into account whe ther an effec- tive control over the foreign company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the Spanish inve s tment is at least 20 percent of the foreign company's capital or if the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions considers that an important or predom- inant source of in f luence exists. Direct inves tmen ts are defined to include the participation in a foreign company, as well as in the increase in its capital, the establishment of branches and subsidiaries, and the granting of long- term loans, with a view to maintaining or establishing lasting economic l inks. Direct inves tmen ts abroad are permitted freely (except those in companies whose activity is portfolio or real estate inves tmen ts). Direct inves tmen ts projects, how- ever, must be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification and statistical control. If no administrative notification is received after 30 days following the submission of application, it may be considered approved. Direct inves tmen ts must be carried out w i th in six mon ths, unless an extension is authorized. Real estate inves tment as well as other types of foreign inves tment (e.g., purchase of short-term assets) are subject to prior authorization by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Re inves tmen ts of the principal of a previous direct inves tment in a new direct or liberalized portfolio in- ves tmen ts are free of restrictions, but require prior ver- ification in the former case (except when the purpose of the new direct inves tment is identical to that of the previous one). Portfolio inves tmen ts are defined as (1) the purchase of securities issued by nonres iden ts, irrespective of the market of issuance; or (2) the purchase of securities issued by residents in a foreign market. Securities are defined to include equ i ty, fixed, or floating rate in s t rumen t s, or participations in inves tment trus ts. (Assets with a re- maining maturity of less than one year are not considered securities.) Residents are free to purchase, w i thout prior authorization or ver if ica t ion, securities denominated in foreign currencies (either currencies officially quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market or ECUs) which are either quoted in a domestic or foreign stock exchange or negotiated in a "organized market." There are no limits on the purchase of securities issued by Spanish borrowers or by international organizations of which Spain is a member. In the case of other foreign securities, the 454 ou ts tand ing stock held by residents must not exceed Ptas 5 million or 30 percent of the inves tor's reported net wealth ( ind iv idua ls ), own resources (registered financial ins t i tu t ions) or capital and reserves (other ins t i tu t ions ), whichever is larger. Securities must be deposited with designated Spanish financial intermediaries for tax re- porting and w i thho ld ing purposes. All re turns on foreign inves tmen ts must be converted into pesetas through those intermediaries. Financial loans by residents to nonresidents require prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. The same applies to long-term (more than five years' ma tu r i ty) and medium-term (between one and five years' ma tu r i ty) commercial credits by res iden ts to non- residents. Med ium- term commercial credits extended to EC importers are exempt from this requ iremen t. Short- term commercial credits, as well as all types of financial or commercial credits extended by authorized banks and funded through non re s iden t s' convertible currency de- posits in those banks, are free of restrictions. Nonbank residents are not allowed to hold foreign currency deposits with resident banks or foreign currency (and peseta) deposits w i th non res ident banks w i thout prior approval. Proceeds from the sale of real estate are transferable abroad, provided that they were not financed from Ex- ternal Accoun ts in In ternal Pesetas. Proceeds, inc lud ing capital gains, from the liquidation of shares and bonds may be transferred abroad; however, if the purchase was made w i th in te rnal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the l iqu ida t ion proceeds abroad. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Spain. Purchases of gold, silver, and p la t inum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 15. Spain accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Articles of Agreement of the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund. September I. To provide greater f lex ib i l i ty, authorized banks were allowed to use buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies (determined by the Bank of Spain) as the lower and upper margins of a band w i th in which banks would be able to move f ree ly; previously, banks were not free to use any other rate in their transactions with nonbank customers except for the fixed buy ing and selling rates. Nonresident Accounts January 1. Emigrants' accounts were eliminated and their outstanding balances were transferred to regular nonresident accounts in convertible pesetas. Also, out- standing balances on "internal" peseta accounts were transferred to ordinary nonres ident accounts. These measures were aimed at reducing and s imp l ify ing the d ifferent types of nonres ident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments January 1. Spain's accession to the European Com- mun i t ies (EC) became effective. In accordance with the Treaty of Accession signed on June 12, 1985, Spain's trade regime would gradually conform to that of the EC over a transition period of up to ten years. Quantitative import restrictions were removed on a number of indus- trial imports from the EC, except for certain sensitive products (including sulphur, plastic materials, carpets, explosives, sewing machines, motor tillers, arms and ammun i t ion, color televisions, farm tractors, certain tex- tile products, steel, petroleum products) on which the existing restrictions were liberalized. Quantitative import restrictions vis-a-vis third countries on products on which the EC does not maintain restrictions were also elimi- nated, except for specified imports from GATT members (32 products), from Japan (37 products), and from state trading countries (46 products) on which existing restric- tions were liberalized. Moreover, effective March 1, 1986, import tariffs were reduced by 10 percent in line with the provisions of accession. Capital April 1. Individual and juridical persons residing in Spain were allowed to negotiate financial loans in foreign SPAIN currency or convertible pesetas provided that: (1) the amount of the loan is not greater than the equivalent of Ptas 750 million; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least one year (starting from the date of the first d isbursemen t); (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign currencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market or in convertible pesetas and will remain in that currency un t il maturity; and (4) the borrower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending ins t i tu t ion. Loans may be freely amortized one year after the date of disbursements. June 27 and September 25. New legislation further liberalizing foreign investment in Spain was approved. Specifically, prior authorization for foreign investment in oil refining, mining, sea transport, and insurance was eliminated. November 7. Direct investments (including portfolio inves tmen ts) abroad by residents were fu r ther liberalized. Although direct investment projects abroad would still have to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification, they would be considered approved if no administrative notification was issued after 30 days. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U .S. dollar is the in terven t ion currency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is adjusted period- ically by the Central Bank, taking account of domestic price developments relative to those of Sri Lanka's six major trading partners (France, Federal Republic of Germany, India, Japan, United K ingdom, and Un i ted States). The Central Bank de term ines daily the spot buying and selling rates of the U .S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions with the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U .S. dollar on a spot basis at the buy ing and selling rates so established. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 28.5125 and SL Rs 28.5275, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank provides forward cover to commer- cial banks for their sales and purchases in U .S. dollars only; the period of such cover is up to three mon ths. One-month forward dollars are purchased at the spot middle rate and sold at a premium of SL Rs 4.00 per US$100 against the spot middle rate. Three-month forward dollars are purchased and sold at a discount of SL Rs 0.50 and at a premium of SL Rs 20.00, respectively, per US$100 against the spot middle rate. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depar tment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Governmen t. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post off ices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Inves tment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign inves tment in areas other than those coming within the purview of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), which admin- isters the Inves tment Promotion Zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion ( i .e ., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, paymen ts for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due 456 or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.1 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in a designated foreign currency (see foot- note 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals resident outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subsequent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected w i thout the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; howeve r, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected w i thout the prior approval of the Depar tment of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for remittances abroad w i thout ex- change control approval are not pe rm i t ted. Accoun ts in category (4) are designated in the first ins tance as non- resident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward rem i t tances require the prior approval of the Depar tmen t. Under category (5) foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonres ident accounts with a local commercial bank w i thout the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually f u n ds owned by non res iden ts, repatriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local d isbu rsemen ts and credit them on account of pens ions, income tax re fund s, and prof i ts and dividends without prior approval. Funds in blocked ac- counts may be invested in any local enterprise w i thout the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- 'Au s t ra l ian dollars, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian do l lars, Dan ish kroner, deu t sche ma rk, French f ranc s, Japanese y en, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, Norwegian k rone r, pounds s te r l ing, Swed ish k rone r, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dation of such inves tmen ts can be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a max imum of SL Rs 200,000 are allowed from these accounts without the prior ap- proval of the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fu l ly transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.2 Such accounts can also be opened by Sri Lankans w i th in 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka w i th foreign exchange brought in by them or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest paymen ts in these four convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited w i thout exchange control approval for paymen ts abroad or for paymen ts w i th in Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees) while the account holder is outside Sri Lanka and during a ten- year period from the date of arrival of the account holder for the purpose of taking up permanent residence in Sri Lanka. These accounts are exempt from income and wealth taxes during the period in wh ich the account holder is resident abroad and for a fu r ther period of ten years after resuming residence in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish a Foreign Currency Banking Un i t. These un i ts may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Inves tment Promotion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresident and to any resident enterprise having GCEC status. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Un i ts are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments3 Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those sub ject to control for security reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equ ipment used in photographic and cinematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatus; ar- ticles of cement (whether reinforced or no t); concrete cement blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash including 2In deutsche ma rk, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. 3As part of the set of measures introduced under the 1986 budge t, and with effect from January 1, 1986, quota restrictions on imports of tex t i les were abolished, and imports of cotton tex t i les were made subject to protective cus toms du ty of 100 percen t, or SL Rs 25 a square me ter (100 percen t, or SL Rs 40 a square meter for syn the t ic tex t i les ), wh ichever was higher. SRI LANKA kelp; and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items (rice, flour, and wheat grains). Imports of specified items4 are restricted to government or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures apply to certain im- ports of capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign inves tment require the approval of the Foreign Inves tment Adv isory Committee, and certain machinery imports relating to local inves tment require the prior approval of the Local Inves tment Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be ef- fected only against sight letters of credit. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign ex- change or to credit a nonresident account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These require- men ts do not apply where the value of a consignment does not exceed US$500 and is for the direct use of the importer. Such imports should not be in commercial quan t i t ies. Payments for Invisibles Certain paymen ts for invisibles require exchange con- trol permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of 2,000 Indian rupees per adult and 1,000 Indian rupees per child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Bhu tan, Burma, Ind ia, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan); the U .S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amoun ts may be allowed. In addition, basic allowances of £ stg. 500 per adult and £ stg. 250 per child under 12 years of age are allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as this func t ion has been delegated to the banks. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant ins t i tu t ion. Banks can also provide foreign ex- change for business travel when the request is accom- panied by a letter from the chairman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular trip abroad, and w i th confirmation that the cost of the exchange will be borne by the respective business establishment. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for the Indian group of countries, and US$90 a day, also up to a max imum of 30 days, for other destinations. These 4These inc lude dates, ch i l ies, on ions, potatoes, certain petroleum p roduc ts, film, consumer tex t i les, caustic soda, tea ches ts, ju te hessian, mamoties, and matches. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA limits apply to chairmen, directors, par tners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$30 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treat- ment abroad if any specialist, whe ther in gove rnment service or in private practice, certifies that equally effec- tive treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. In addition, a monthly living allowance may be granted up to the equivalent of £ stg. 130 for an adult and £ stg. 65 for a child under 12 years for the Indian group of coun tr ies; the corresponding amounts for other countries are £ stg. 500 and £ stg. 250, respectively. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released without prior approval in amoun ts up to Indian Rs 750 for the Ind ian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscriptions and paymen ts to international tourist organizations. Paymen ts for other types of travel allowance require prior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange is allowed for edu- cation abroad at a recognized un ivers i ty or technical institute to cover passage fare, living expenses, tuition fees, textbooks, etc. For living expenses annual foreign exchange limits are established for (1) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (2) post- graduate education, according to four groups of countries. For the group of countries in the Indian subcon t inen t, foreign exchange is made available up to Indian Rs 8,640 and Indian Rs 11,520, respectively, for undergraduate and postgraduate studies; for Europe (including the United Kingdom and the U .S .S .R .), up to £ stg. 3,120 and £ stg. 3,840, respectively; for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to US$7,200 and US$8,640, respectively; and for all other countries, up to US$4,320 and US$5,760, respectively. A clothing allow- ance of £ stg. 150 (or its equivalent in other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amoun ts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two thirds of their gross mon th ly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel em- ployed by approved enterprises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third when the emp loyment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f .o .b ., c & f, or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commissions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are perm i t ted; these must be covered by the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. 458 Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accoun ts with credit balances ou ts tand ing as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles w i thout the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Banks are au thor ized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional ins t i tu t ions, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and paymen ts for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit rem i t tances of non res ident par tners of partner- ships in Sri Lanka and remittances of d iv idends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of application, do not include undistri- buted profits from previous years, and do not include transfers from reserves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim prof i ts, the following documents should be fu rn ished: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remittable prof i ts; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonres ident partner) in respect of the profits to be rem i t ted; (4) a certificate con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, submission of the following documen ts is required: (a) an audited copy of the company 's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents the final installment of the prof i ts, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (c) a computation of the remittable prof i ts, and also the documen ts listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submitted: (1) a certif- icate from the company's auditors conf irm ing that the amount to be remitted represents only d iv idends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the period; (3) a certificate con- firming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts due to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors conf irm ing payment of d iv idend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents divi- dends only for the period to which it relates; and (c) the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim d iv idends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution designated currencies5 w i thout prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the do- mestic un it of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Un i t. The accounts may be curren t, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amoun ts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to paymen ts in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of en t ry. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresident travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency, pro- vided that the Customs Declaration Card indicates that at least the equ iva lent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lanka staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coin not exceeding £ stg. 20 per person (£ stg. 10 per child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of specified items require prior licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation exercises control over exports of gems; exports of gems by the private sector on a consignment basis require prior approval of exchange control. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmone tary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be col- lected w i th in a period ranging from 21 days to 6 mon ths, depending on the form of paymen t. Also, all export proceeds exceeding SL Rs 500,000 in value must be sold forward to a local bank. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and paymen ts agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Un ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coin. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instru- ments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permitted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding 5Deutsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese y en, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. SRI LANKA SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in without restriction. Inward remittance of foreign ex- change proceeds from invisibles exceeding US$50,000 per transaction requires prior approval by the Controller of Exchange, except in the case of inward remittances for certain special purposes. Capital Inves tmen ts of foreign capital are permitted in projects that are specifically approved by the Government or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than inves tmen ts made from blocked accounts may be repa- triated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad but may be reinvested w i th the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign inve s tmen ts in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Inves tment Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special facilities for remittances and taxation. Inves tmen ts abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, in- terest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the coun try of migration by normal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent up to £ stg. 500 per adult and £ stg. 250 per child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewe lry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in fu l l, or up to £ stg. 100 a mon th, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the coun try of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the coun try, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank; the latter is the sole importer of gold into Sri Lanka. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 27. The limit for the import of goods for the personal use of an individual (not in commercial quan- tities) was changed from SL Rs 5,000 c.i.f. value (Col- ombo) to US$500 c.i.f. value (Colombo). Payments for such imports may be made in any manner. Payments for Invisibles August 26. Annual foreign exchange allocations for education abroad were modified as follows: (1) for the group of countries in the Indian subcontinent (Bangladesh, Bhu tan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan), annual exchange allocations were raised from the maxi- mum of Indian Rs 7,200 for undergraduate education, and Indian Rs 9,600 for postgraduate education to the maxi- mum of Indian Rs 8,640 and Indian Rs 11,520, respec- tively; (2) for Europe, including the United Kingdom and the U .S .S .R ., the annual exchange allocation for under- graduate education was increased from the maximum of £ stg. 2,400 to the max imum of £ stg. 3,120, and that of postgraduate education from up to £ stg. 3,000 to £ stg. 3,840; (3) for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, the limits were raised from US$6,000 to US$7,200 for undergraduate education, and from US$7,200 to US$8,640 for postgraduate education; and (4) for all other countries, the limits were raised from US$3,600 to US$4,320 for undergraduate education, and from US$4,800 to US$5,760 for postgraduate education. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official marke t, in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is, in principle, pegged to a currency basket but is, in practice, closely linked w i th the U .S. dollar at the rate of LSd 2.50 = US$1; and (2) a commercial bank market in wh ich the exchange rate is determined by the "Bankers' Commit- tee," composed of represen ta t ives of seven commercial banks. All convertible currency export proceeds, except for those from cotton and gum arabic, are distributed between the official market and the commercial bank market in the proportion of 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, and receive an effec t ive exchange rate of LSd 2.93 = US$1 wh ich is the weighted average of the exchange rate in the two marke ts. Export proceeds from cotton and gum arabic are surrendered entirely in the official market at the official rate .1 The allocation of other transactions between these marke ts is as follows: the official market handles all export proceeds under the bilateral p aym en ts ag reement w i th Egyp t; import pay- ments (including freight paymen ts) for petroleum, sugar, wheat, flour, agricultural inpu ts, essential pharmaceuti- cals, and transactions under the bilateral payments agree- ment with Egyp t; invisible receipts of selected interna- tional organizations; hotel and travel expenses incurred by foreign tourists; loans and aid flows to the public sector;2 debt service paymen ts on public sector deb t; proceeds of direct inves tment in m in ing and petroleum exploration; commercial banks' capital repatriation ap- proved by the Bank of Sudan; and other specified pay- ments as instructed by the Bank of Sudan. All other exchange transactions are conducted through the com- mercial bank marke t. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except of gold) are the responsibility of the M in is try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses mu st be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Official import paymen ts and other foreign paymen ts are approved w i th in the framework of an annual 'E f f e c t ive J anu a ry 5, 1987, the d i s t r i b u t i on of conve r t ib le currency export proceeds, except for cotton and gum arabic, was changed to 50 percent in the official market and 50 percent in the commercial bank ma rke t; the e f fec t ive exchange rate applicable to these proceeds t h us depreciated to LSd 3.25 = US$1. The proceeds from co t ton and gum arabic continued to be surrendered f u l ly to the Bank of Sudan. Howeve r, the rates applicable to the proceeds from exports of co t ton and gum arabic were changed to LSd 3.25 = US$1 and LSd 3.09 - US$1, respec t ive ly. 2The convers ion rate used for the purpose of v a lu ing the coun te rpa rt of cer ta in commod i ty assistance prov ided und er a n um b er of aid protocols is more depreciated than the off ic ial ma rket ra te. foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in coordination w i th the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Commerce, Cooper- ation, and Supply. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral paymen ts agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are allowed to keep foreign exchange in "free" or "private" foreign exchange accounts, depend- ing on the source of fund s. Balances in the free accounts may be replenished only from: direct transfers from abroad; foreign exchange registered on customs decla- rations; and salary paymen ts in foreign currency by Arab organizations. A free account may not be replenished with foreign currency transferred from another free ac- count or private account with funds from unknown sources. Balances in free accounts may be used only for: (1) transfers abroad; (2) w i thdrawal (in the form of traveler's checks or cash, the latter up to a limit of US$200) for travel abroad by the account holder and his fam i ly after verification of fu l f i l lment of travel require- men ts; (3) paymen ts made in bank checks to the Duty- Free Shop Corporation; (4) payment of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency; and (5) purchases of Sudanese pounds at the commercial bank rate. Balances in the private accounts may be augmented only from transfers from abroad by international organi- zations and members of the diplomatic corps, specified Arab organizations, and foreign companies operating in oil drilling and m in ing, construction, engineering, and similar activities; such balances can also be used for purposes (1), (2), (3), and (4) mentioned above, for purchases of Sudanese pounds at the official rate, and for financing of imports. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons, and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports are financed from d i f fe rent sources according to categories. Essential imports are financed from Bank of Sudan resources; all other imports are financed from commercial banks' own resources. Import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply for all goods im- 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN ported into Sudan, and are granted upon favorable deci- sion from an interministerial imports committee (Com- mittee for the Rationalization of Imports). Prior to licensing, public sector imports must secure approval from the Ministry of Finance, and imports under a foreign aid program must be approved by the Commodity Aid Com- mittee. All import licenses must be validated at the Administration for Foreign Exchange (AFE) of the Bank of Sudan. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Most imports are subject to an advance deposit of 5 percent of the c.i.f. value if the import is financed through the commercial banks' foreign exchange market. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin deposit ranging from 10 percent to 100 percent of transaction value, depending on the import category; for agricultural and industrial inpu ts, the margin requ irement is 10 per- cent. A stamp du ty of LSd 25 is levied on the application form for each transfer in respect of private sector imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles made through the commercial banks' foreign exchange market do not require prior approval from the AFE. Insurance payments require a certificate from the insurance comptroller; transfers for medical treatment require a certified cost estimate from the Medical Commission; transfer of royalties payable to foreign bodies requires a royalty exchange permit from the government body concerned (generally, the Ministry of Industry). Authorized banks may accept foreign ex- change up to US$1,000 or the equivalent in other hard currencies from residents, irrespective of their source, to be exchanged for traveler's checks or bank checks for traveling abroad. In addition, allocations to travelers to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of LSd 300 a person a year in clearing dollars. Departing travelers must provide evidence that foreign exchange in excess of US$1,000 in their possession was acquired through a commercial bank, drawn from a foreign exchange account, or has been reported on a declaration form prior to en try into Sudan, or has been approved by the Bank of Sudan. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Except when exporting cotton, gum arabic, and livestock, all exporters must submit export contracts accompanied by an export license and obtain approval from the Bank of Sudan through an authorized commercial bank handling the transaction. All commodities are subject to m in imum export prices. Export proceeds must be repatriated to the banking system w i th in four mon ths from the date of shipment. All convertible currency proceeds from exports of cotton and gum arabic and 70 percent of the convertible 462 currency proceeds from exports of all other exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the official exchange rate; in the case of the latter group of products, the remaining 30 percent of the export proceeds must be surrendered at the commercial bank rate.3 When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; otherwise a surrender date is usually specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. There is an export tax on gum arabic, cotton, hides and sk ins, and ivory. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad (SNWA) are al- lowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. The repatriation of funds from SNWAs is transacted through the commercial bank market; since June 1985, a bonus is offered in the form of a pound-denominated coupon equal to 15 percent of the amount valued at the official exchange rate. Coupons can be used by the SNWA to pay customs duties, make purchases in du ty-free shops, or exchange them for a car import license (if an amount equivalent to US$8,000 is sold), or for an entitlement to buy land from the Government at a favorable price (if an amount equ iva lent to US$20,000 is sold). Travelers en- tering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coin of other currencies, but the importation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is prohibited. The declaration of foreign exchange is a legal requirement for all arrivals into Sudan. An official declaration is required for the foreign exchange to be credited to a foreign currency account or to be re-exported. Capital All incoming private sector foreign capital (loans or equ i ty), other than bank capital, is converted at the commercial bank rate. Repatriation of share capital and loan principal to nonresidents is subject to the submission of a certificate from the Bank of Sudan stating the value of the foreign share in the capital and the loans received in Sudan; equ i ty shares require a certification of liqui- dation and of tax compliance. Public sector capital inflows and debt service paymen ts are effected through the official exchange market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for num isma t ic purposes. Subject to certain con- ditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these excep- t ions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or 3E f fec t ive Janua ry 5, 1987, 50 percent of the proceeds from all con- ver t ib le currency exports, other th an co t ton and gum arabic, must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the off ic ial exchange rate; the rema in ing 50 percent must be surrendered to the Bankers' Comm i t tee at the prevailing rate declared by the Comm i t tee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some new ly mined gold is exported for processing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 30. A committee composed of representatives of seven commercial banks was established to determine the exchange rate in the commercial bank market, which would be binding on all banks. The initial rate was set at the prevailing rate of US$1 = LSd 3.30 (buying). The committee was also empowered to pool the foreign exchange purchased by the banks and allocate it according to established priorities. April 12. For all exports except cotton and gum arabic, the requirement to surrender all convertible currency export receipts at the official exchange rate was replaced by a requirement to surrender 70 percent of export proceeds at the official exchange rate, and the remaining 30 percent at the commercial bank rate. Proceeds from Invisibles January 30. The physical possession by Sudanese nationals and resident foreigners of foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of US$1,000 was prohibited. A three-week grace period was announced during which all holdings in excess of this amount had to be either (1) sold to commercial banks at the declared exchange rate; (2) credited to foreign currency accoun ts; or (3) exported with special permission from the Bank of Sudan. For holdings of less than this amoun t, the declaration would be optional, but an official declaration form would be required for the foreign exchange to be credited to a foreign currency account or be re-exported. For nonres- ident foreigners, the foreign exchange could be held for a longer period bu t, on departure, documen tary evidence would be required to prove that any change in foreign exchange holdings had been utilized for legal purposes. SUDAN February 11. The declaration of foreign exchange in an official form was made a legal requirement for all arrivals in Sudan; accordingly, the limit of US$1,000 was abol- ished. Foreign Currency Accounts January 30. The use of free foreign currency accounts to finance imports or to make trade-related current invis- ible paymen ts was prohibited. Imports and Import Payments May 18. The import of tires and tubes in sizes locally manu fac tu red, p rev ious ly limited to five i tems per re- turning Sudanese national, was prohibited. July 1. Unutilized import licenses issued before Feb- ruary 1986 had to be returned to the Ministry of Com- merce, Cooperation, and Supply. Partially utilized import licenses could be used to clear goods already shipped, but the unutilized portion was canceled. October 4. The import of specified goods was permitted in the context of countertrade arrangements. Eligible import items included industrial inpu ts, oil, wood, iron, and selected foodstuffs (milk powder, lentils, pepper, coffee, tea, and pou l try). November 8. The cash margin deposit requ iremen t, previously payable when the import license was presented to the Bank of Sudan for frank ing, was made payable only at the time when the commercial banks' foreign exchange committee endorses the import license. Exports and Export Proceeds April 12. The percentage of export proceeds to be surrendered at the official exchange rate was reduced from 100 percent to 70 percent for all convertible currency exports except cotton and gum arabic, with the remaining 30 percent to be surrendered at the commercial bank rate. The 100 percent requirement remained in effect for cotton and gum arabic. October 4. Exports of selected items were permitted in the context of countertrade arrangements. Eligible export items included scrap iron, wax, salt, honey, molasses, karkadeh, and watermelon seeds. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1986 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amsterdam and the above-mentioned rate of Sf 1.78876 = US$1, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Suriname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks charge commissions of 1 percent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, and import licenses are granted by the Central Bank. In principle, imports of medical supplies, fue ls, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licensing sys tem, but the full basis for allocation is not published. Export licenses are granted by the M in is try of Transport, Trade, and Indus try. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import paymen ts (subject to pre- sentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. These banks may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible paymen ts not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Arrears are maintained w i th respect paymen ts. to external Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries are not permitted; they mus t, in general, be made in convertible currencies.2 'Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Barbados dollars, and Guyana dollars. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, 464 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Surinamese tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Imports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are subject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11, 1982.5 By arrangement with a Swiss firm, the authorities monitor invoicing of imports and exports. A government Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Neth- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 3However, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for their imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding), chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish, shrimp, and crab —fresh, cooled or frozen, salted, dried or precooked (excluding kwie-kwie fish and smoked herring) —vegetables (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic), edible roots and tubers, citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts, green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated), rice and rice products (excluding baby food), sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup, noodles and macaroni, jam, je l ly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics), peanut bu t ter, syrups, and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics), firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for construction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers, men's and boy's shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes), and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items such as specified explosives and narcotics are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie- kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions and garlic, fru i ts and nu ts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, and certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, and ready-made clothing, and furn i ture made of wood, metal, bamboo or other materials (excluding those for business establishments such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agency, the Suriname Central Import Service, acts as the main importer of staple foodstuffs, agricultural inputs, and certain other commodities. Import prices for food products imported by other companies are checked against quotations collected by the Suriname Central Import Service. The import license serves as a general authorization for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. A license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; application for a license must be made at least one month prior to the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth), as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 4756 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A traveler may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 525 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts for children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the pur- chase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are ap- proved on a case-by-case basis. Both resident and non- resident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign bank notes is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an individual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essen- tial to but not taught in Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation or direct in- vestments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. These payments are temporarily suspended. 6With effect from January 15, 1987, the limit was reduced to Sf 270. Accordingly, the maximum was reduced from Sf 525 to Sf 320 for travel to other countries. SURINAME Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely if they are covered by letters of credit opened by importers abroad, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to the central bank. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only with the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of ba- boonwood is prohibited, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified paymen ts and receipts (including export pro- ceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f .o .b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of f .o .b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of the f .o .b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their possession on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount which nonres- idents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount brought in and declared on entry. Nonresident travelers, except residents of Guyana and French Guiana, are required to change convertible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 500 when entering Suriname at Zanderij International Airport or at Nickerie or Albina. Residents of Guyana and French Guiana should exchange convertible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 200 (50 percent of these amounts for children under 12 years). Unspent balances of such guilders can be reconverted into convertible currency, provided that the visit was shorter than ten days in each case and the visitor spent more than Sf 50 a day. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in annual installments of 20 percent. Transfers 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Board may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional cir- cumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries7 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Au tho- rized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating fund s. Following curtailment of such credit lines in early 1983, the Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an ar- rangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.8 The ceiling on the outstanding letters of credit guaranteed by reserve pledges amounts to the equivalent of US$16.3 million; the authorized banks have generally been able to honor their letters of credit, so that the pledged central 7Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, I ta ly, Lux- embourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 8This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, and not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. bank balances have not so far been drawn upon. The authorized banks have a general license to place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts correspond- ing to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Locally pro- duced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at a price closely related to the world market price. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of un- worked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohib- ited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coin, one with a face value of Sf 100, one SF 200, and one SF 250, are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coin are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1986 Exports and Export Proceeds May 31. All export proceeds were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. September 17. All export receipts were required to be covered by letters of credit opened by importers abroad. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 = R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the floating middle rate of the South African commercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1986 the closing buying and selling rates were US$0.4585 and US$0.4575, respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U .S. dollar. The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on the relationship with the SDR as advised by the Clearing House operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, Malawi kwacha, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CM A) which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Common Monetary Area, and in principle, these are not controlled. In relation to countries outside the Common Monetary Area, Swa- ziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, but Swaziland has not adopted the dual exchange rate system which was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Swaziland does not maintain any bilateral payments arrangements. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the M in is try of Finance, controls all ex ternal currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs un ion with Bot- swana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any coun try of the customs un ion. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the cus toms un ion. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods directly from countries outside the customs un ion, such imports are usua l ly licensed in conformity w i th specific import regulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import pay- men t. Ports of en try outside Swaziland may be utilized, but the overall control over import licenses and paymen ts procedures is a responsibility of the appropriate Swazi authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repa- triated in the prescribed manner and w i th in the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel to neigh- boring countries is E 2,000 for each adult, and E 1,000 for each child, a year; the corresponding annual allow- ances for tourist travel to other countries are E 6,000 and E 3,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries, the basic annual allowance is E 4,000 a person at rates not exceeding E 400 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are E 10,000 and E 500, respectively. A higher basic allowance can be obtained for business and medical travel. To use credit cards outside the Common Monetary Area, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to departure. Capital All inward capital transfers require prior approval of the CBS and should be properly documented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, divi- dends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 7. As a consequence of the amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement between Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland and of the bilateral agreement between South Africa and Swaziland, the rand ceased to be legal tender in Swaziland. The lilangeni may have a value different from the rand, and the 100 percent backing of the lilangeni by the rand ceased. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND Exchange Control Territory April 1. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement between Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland became effective. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade-weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In constructing the index, the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus imports) during the previous five-year period, and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are propor- tional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index, with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accord- ingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares, the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1981-85): U.S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Belgian franc Italian lira Japanese yen Swiss franc Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 22.2 15.5 12.8 9.3 7.9 6.6 5.2 4.8 3.6 3.5 3.0 2.0 1.3 1.2 U 100.0 The index value of 132 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on Octo- ber 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark; beginning in June 1985, fluctuations in the spot rate are limited within 1.5 percent on either side of the announced benchmark. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, on December 30, 1986 were SKr 6.8180 and SKr 6.8200, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Transactions with residents in a foreign currency against Swedish kronor are, however, permitted only as a cover of current and authorized payments. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited (debited) to an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions (on each oc- casion when a forward transaction is allowed, currency options may be concluded) in foreign currencies against Swedish kronor covering current and authorized pay- ments for (1) unlimited periods in respect of receipts, on the one hand, and payments for imports, freight, and charter services, on the other; (2) periods not exceeding 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in con- nection with Swedish exports; and (3) 6 mon ths in respect of other payments. Forward transactions may be con- cluded only to cover payments for which an agreement exists. However, export firms may make forward sales of settlement on the envisaged date of payment or, when tendering, on the expiry date for tendering. Authorized banks may without exceptions conclude with residents forward transactions in any foreign currency against another foreign currency. Authorized banks may buy forward from and sell forward to other authorized banks, foreign banks, and nonresidents any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Limits are placed on the net foreign exchange holdings, spot and forward, of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents, and may incur foreign exchange liabilities, including a net liability in any one currency within individual limits set for each bank. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, ena- bles the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonres- idents for on-lending (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. Authorized banks and certain other authorized agencies implement the 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through authorized banks. These banks have also been granted general licenses to approve various pay- ments that are subject to exchange control. When re- quired, import and export licenses are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor: External Kronor Accounts and Re- stricted Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held with authorized banks by nonresidents domiciled abroad. They may be credited with authorized payments to foreign countries by residents, transfers from other External Kronor Ac- counts, and sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for authorized payments to residents, transferred to any other External Kronor Account, and may be used for conversion into any foreign currency. They do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. The accounts may be credited with, for example, earnings and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, inheritances, and amor- tization on loans granted before emigration. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for such items as expenses related to assets in Sweden, maintenance costs, purchase of Swedish securities and real estate in Sweden, and loans to residents. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quan t i ta t ive restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these coun- tries are liberalized. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwant, Thailand, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of specified textiles and garments from any source other than EC countries (except Greece, Portugal, and Spain) or EFTA countries, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 470 all countries and all imports from South Africa, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports may, as current payments, be made freely through an authorized bank. Importers are also permitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits, pro- vided that such credits are regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments that are considered as current may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without restrictions, provided that they are made through an authorized bank. Occasional payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 3,000 are considered current regardless of the purpose. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be allocated by authorized banks and other authorized agencies up to an amount considered reasonable in light of the purpose and duration of the journey. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swedish bank notes and coin up to SKr 6,000. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely foreign bank notes and other means of payment that have been acquired abroad or from an authorized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. While abroad, residents may open accounts abroad, provided that at the end of the stay the balance is transferred to Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea and South Africa, as well as exports of special steel to the United States, are subject to export licensing. All other exports, with some exceptions such as ships and scrap metal, are free from license. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold to an authorized bank for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may, for traveling expenses, bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coin, and other means of payment. Capital The various categories of capital transactions are gov- erned by specific regulations as follows: (1) Direct investments. A permit from the Riksbank is required for direct investments abroad by residents. These permits are normally granted. New investment in South Africa and Namibia has been banned since July 1, 1979. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require a permit from the Riksbank, which is always given. Investments below SKr 5 million may be financed with domestic credit, as may up to 50 percent of individual investments beyond that amount. (2) Loans. Swedish exporters and importers are nor- mally authorized to raise foreign-currency loans abroad or from an authorized bank in order to finance suppliers' ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credits and imports, respectively. Loans with a life of up to six months can be obtained from an authorized bank without a special permit from the Riksbank, provided that the purpose is to finance exports or imports of goods. Authorized banks may consequently raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to enterprises for that purpose. The Riksbank normally grants permits to enterprises and local governments to raise medium- and long-term loans in foreign currency abroad, provided the average life of the loans is at least two years; loans not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 million can be raised from an authorized bank by enterprises and local governments without a permit from the Riksbank. Authorized banks may, without limit, lend foreign currencies to Swedish-owned companies abroad or to buyers of Swedish exports or sellers of Swedish imports. Authorized banks may, within individual limits, lend foreign currencies to, or issue guarantees in favor of, foreign borrowers for purposes unrelated to Swedish trade or Swedish-owned companies. (3) Transactions in securities. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of foreign securities from nonresidents by residents is generally not permitted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may on behalf of residents purchase from nonresidents foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies if payment is made with proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denom- inated in a foreign currency and the purchase is made within six months of the corresponding sale. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kronor, provided that a bona fide nonresident ownership is confirmed by an affidavit or by registration with the Securities Register Center. The Riksbank normally permits sales to nonresidents of listed Swedish shares. Authorized banks and stock- brokers may also handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor if the payment is made with the proceeds from sales of other similar securities to residents and if certain other conditions are fulfilled. (4) Recreational dwellings. Residents may, on appli- cation, transfer abroad up to SKr 800,000 a family to purchase a recreational dwelling. (5) Emigration. When emigrating, a resident is permit- ted, on application, to transfer up to SKr 200,000. The remainder of an emigrant's funds may be transferred after confirmation by the tax authorities that the emigrant is no longer residing in Sweden. (6) Other transfers. Authorized banks may approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances. Payments constituting gifts may be approved up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year, and transfers to non- residents on account of inheritance are permitted. Resi- dents may, without a permit from the Riksbank, accept capital receipts from abroad related to such purposes as SWEDEN life pensions, annuity contracts, contractual amortiza- tions, the sales of foreign securities and real estate abroad, gifts, and inheritances. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments July 1. Following a change in the import and export licensing regulations, all imports from South Africa be- came subject to licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. Firms wishing to re-export certain high- technology products with no domestic manufacturing content were required to obtain prior approval from the authorities in the products' country of origin. July 1. Following a change in the import and export licensing regulations, all exports to South Africa became subject to licensing. Capital 1. Direct Investments April 14. The practice of not allowing Swedish firms to establish holding companies to control their direct investments abroad was abolished. June 24. The requirement that Swedish direct invest- ments abroad exceeding SKr 10 million had to be financed by foreign borrowing was eliminated. 2. Loans February 18. Swedish parent companies were author- ized to guarantee, without prior approval, borrowing by their foreign subsidiaries. March 25. Foreign currency loans raised before March 1984 and not exceeding SKr 2 million may be freely repaid in advance. This authorization did not extend to foreign loans formerly required by the Riksbank as a condition for direct foreign inves tment abroad. March 25. Authorized banks may, without limit, lend foreign currencies to Swedish-owned companies abroad, and to buyers of Swedish exports or sellers of Swedish imports. Authorized banks may also, within individual limits, lend foreign currencies to, or issue guarantees in favor of, foreign borrowers for purposes unrelated to Swedish foreign trade or Swedish-owned companies; previously, authorized banks could, on approval, extend foreign currency loans to nonresidents to finance Swedish foreign trade transactions, but foreign currency loans to nonresidents for other purposes were generally not permitted. March 25. The amount that a Swedish authorized bank may lend in foreign currencies to a resident enterprise, without prior authorization, was raised from SKr 10 million to SKr 100 million. 3. Transactions in Securities March 25. Regulations permitting a resident to switch a portfolio of foreign securities into other listed foreign securities were modified to allow acquisition of put and 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN call options in foreign shares. (Options in the exchange control rules are not defined as securities.) 4. Recreational Dwellings June 24. The amount that a resident may transfer abroad to purchase a recreational dwelling was raised from Skr 250,000 to SKr 800,000. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when warranted by prevailing circumstances. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; the market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U .S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1986 was Sw F 1.6235 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as residents and so are juridical persons including banks. However, this rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is invo lved. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switz- erland and Liechtenstein. Capital export transactions of financial institutions, however, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of butter and alcohol is subject to state monopoly. The most important commod- ities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their compounds. Import per- mits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Pay- ments for imports from all countries may be made freely. 'Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semi-official or private organi- zations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formality, except that bank credits and other bank lending to nonresidents, when amounting to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. Permission is also required for foreign bond and note issues in Switzerland and for direct participations or subparticipations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues and Eurocurrency credits. A stamp tax of 0.15 percent is payable by Swiss residents on new Eurobond flotations by foreigners. Foreign institutions are allowed to participate as sub-underwriters in syndi- cated Swiss franc capital export transactions, provided that they are not mentioned either in the arrangement or publicly. Credits with multicurrency clauses are subject to the same conditions as those denominated in Swiss francs if the Swiss franc is the determining currency for the calculation of the debt amount. The physical impor- tation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In 1986 the banks were not subject to reserve requirements; they are permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits (including '"fiduciary" or "trustee" funds) received from nonresidents. A select number of banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis, and their dealer position, on a weekly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. The approval of the cantons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonres- 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND idents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs du ty. Import and export licenses, which are issued free ly, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1986 Capital May 29. The maturity restrictions and regulations on early redemption of foreign bonds and notes were lifted. May 29. The requirement that issues of foreign notes must have a m in imum denomination of Sw F 50,000 and remain deposited for the total period of issue with the issuing bank, with a bank that has participation in the issuing syndicate, or with the Swiss Security Clearing Organization (SEGA) was abolished. October 1. The 35 percent withholding tax on interest earned on foreign and domestic interbank deposits with a maturity exceeding 12 months was abolished. October 1. The rate of the stamp tax paid by Swiss residents on new Eurobond flotations by foreigners was reduced from 0.3 percent of the transaction value to 0.15 percent. October 1. The sales of foreign currency-denominated bonds floated by subsidiaries of Swiss corporations were exempted from the withholding tax, provided that the proceeds are used outside Switzerland; quotations of such issues in Switzerland were permitted. Gold October 1. The tax on the physical transfer of gold (i.e., 6.3 percent for wholesale transactions and 9.3 percent for retail transactions) was abolished. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1 in the official market. The official rate applies, on the receipts side, to official loans and grants and the proceeds from exports of oil, raw cotton, and cereals; and on the paymen ts side, to debt service paymen ts, other public sector invisibles, and imports by the public sector. The parallel market rate (LS 5.45 = US$1) applies, on the receipts side, to exports of phosphates; and on the payments side, to certain public sector transfers, student expenses abroad, and transit trade. The exchange rate of LS 8.85 = US$1 applies to public sector imports of medicine (effective January 1, 1987). The tourist market rate (LS 9.875 - US$1) applies, on the receipts side, to hotel services, foreign exchange surrendered at the airport, the airport tax, remittances of foreign establishments, foreign embassy expenses, and surrender of 25 percent of salaries of Syrians on second- ment abroad; and on the paymen ts side, to some public and private sector transfers. The exchange rate of LS 11.25 = US$1 applies to all other exports (effective February 9, 1987) and all other public sector imports (effective January 1, 1987). The exchange rate of LS 16.25 = US$1 applies to airline tickets, and LS 18 - US$1 applies to all tranfers abroad by airline companies. The promotion rate (LS 22.5 = US$1) applies, on the receipts side, to remittances, private sector commissions, and tourism earnings; and on the payments side, to travel allowances, medical expenses abroad, printed matter, and other personal expenses, including students' expenses abroad. The Syrian Arab Republic confines its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar within LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1 in the official market; on December 31, 1986 the official buying and selling rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official market rates, the parallel market rates, the tourist market rates, and the promotion rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by 'Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian r iya ls, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and ex- change licenses for invisibles and capital transactions, by the Exchange Office. Only authorized commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior ap- proval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency, and such proceeds may also be received in bank notes denominated in convertible currencies and declared at the border posts of entry. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing pay- ments. All payments to and receipts from Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Re- public maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam, of which the first and the third are operative. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Residents wishing to open foreign currency accounts are required to present evi- dence in writing that they have sources of income abroad. Nonresidents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restrictions, or used in payment for spec- ified imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel exchange market rate and amounts correspond- ing to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Egypt, Israel, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodities 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state-trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies exclusively qualified to import may import certain com- modities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. Priorities in respect of private sector imports of spare parts, raw materials, and intermediate products are set by an import committee. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are, in principle, prohibited; however, exceptions up to LS 70,000 per merchant may be permitted under certain circumstances. In principle, imports must come direct from the country of origin, w i thout the in terven t ion of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au thor i ty, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses which must be obtained by the importer prior to the date of shipment of the goods. Operations of the state-trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budge t, these agencies submit documentation on their import requirements to the Min- istry of Economy and the customs authorities, and import licenses are automatically issued. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Payments for imports by the public sector are made at the official market rate solely by letters of credit, while those by the private sector are normally made at the parallel market rate. Private sector importers are autho- rized to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts. Other private imports must be paid with foreign exchange held abroad. With certain minor exceptions, all imports by resident private sector importers require letters of credit. The importer is required to submit the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Commercial Bank of Syria, which proceeds to open the letter of credit; approval by the Exchange Office is not required. A non-interest-bearing advance import deposit of 50 percent of import value is required for all private sector imports and is a condition for obtaining an import license. Licenses to import specified items that normally are prohibited (certain luxury con- sumer goods), up to a value of LS 70,000 in a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the M in is try of Supply and Internal Trade and whose names appear on the list of income tax payers published by the M in is try of Finance; no licenses are required for such imports with a value not exceeding LS 2,000 an item a mon th. Foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for import paymen ts, provided that a license is obtained when necessary. Imports financeable from foreign currency obtained abroad 476 are determined by product lists published as necessary by ministerial decree; items on the lists are limited to raw materials, production inputs, agricultural and industrial equ ipmen t, and spare parts. Such imports are not subject to the waiting list sys tem, nor to the payment of an advance import deposit, provided that the deposits to be used in payment for the imports have been held in the local bank for at least three mon ths and that the account holder has stayed at least one year outside the Syrian Arab Republic before opening such an account. Following the steps taken on September 25, 1985 to facilitate private sector imports, resident private sector importers, upon presentation of a draft or a letter from their foreign supplier granting 360-day credit facilities, may also import the items on lists hitherto reserved for nonresidents. Insurance on private sector imports must be procured locally. There is a tax of 2 percent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there is a un if ied import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, a maritime transport tax, and a harbor tax). Payments for Invisibles Most paymen ts for invisibles must be made at the promotion rate (LS 22.5 = US$1), while trade-related transactions of the public sector are made at the official market rate, and certain other specified paymen ts, at the parallel market rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign bank notes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the promotion rate. The travel allowance is US$1,000 a trip for all countries except for Jordan and Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for foreign ex- change travel allowance, but may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amoun ts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on production of proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to paymen ts agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian na- tionality must pay an exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab countries, and LS 1,000 a person for other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transactions in invisibles, as follows: 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. All other transactions require the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prior approval of the Exchange Office Committee. Resi- dents and nonresidents are not permitted to take out any Syrian currency. Nonresidents leaving the country are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Au thor i ty. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities also are reserved for govern- ment agencies, state-trading agencies, or specified com- panies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds from exports of oil, raw cotton, and cereal must be surrendered at the official market rate, and those from exports of phosphates, at the parallel market rate. Proceeds from private sector exports are subject to surrender at the exchange rate of LS 11.25 - US$1. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Certain manufac- tured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of fru i ts, vegetables, and vegetable oil are subject to an export tax of 8 percent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from trans- actions by the private sector must be sold at either the tourist market rate or the promotion rate, according to the nature of the transaction. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. There is no limit on the amount of Syrian bank notes that may be brought into the country by residents and nonresidents. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or inter- national organizations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at authorized banks at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills at deluxe and first-class hotels with the coun- terpart of foreign currencies exchanged by them at au- thorized local banks at the tourist market exchange rate. Upon entering the country, all such visitors, other than nationals of Arab countries, are each required to convert SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC a m in imum of US$100 into local currency at the tourist exchange rate. All Syrian Government employees working abroad and covered by the Security and Pension Act and the Social Security Act are required to repatriate and convert at the tourist market rate a m in imum of 25 percent of each year's pay and allowances received in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official market rate, while trans- actions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether resi- dents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Incentives for foreign inves tment in tourism and agriculture include a seven- year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; exemption from income tax on 50 percent of profits; exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of raw materials, tools, vehicles, and other equ ipmen t; permission to import materials needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turnover; and authorization to open foreign currency accounts. Investment guarantee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may be acquired by nonres- idents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals only after presentation of evidence that the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property has been converted into Syrian pounds at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic w i thout restriction. Domestic transactions in gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are subject to licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresidents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The tourist market rate was depreciated to LS 9.875 = US$1. August 13. A new "promotion" exchange rate was introduced whose level was to be closely tied to the value of the Syrian pound on the Amman and Beirut foreign exchange markets. It was initially set at LS 22.5 = US$1. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC This rate would apply to receipts from remittances, private sector commissions, tourism, and to a restricted category of invisible payments including travel and medical expenses. October 1. New exchange rates of LS 16.25 = US$1 and LS 18.00 - US$1 were introduced. The rate of LS 16.25 = US$1 would apply to sales of airline tickets to residents and nonresidents and the rate of LS 18.00 = US$1 would apply to all transfers abroad by airline companies. Prescription of Currency February 16. A trade agreement was signed with Sudan to provide for bilateral barter trade of US$40 million over 1986-87. Under this agreement tariff rates were reduced on some items, and the range of goods traded between the two countries was specified. May 15. The Syrian Arab Republic and Jordan agreed to exchange goods worth JD 20 million (equivalent to about US$62 million) in 1986. Imports and Import Payments March 17. Private importers were authorized to import permissible products if they placed foreign exchange equal to 102-105 percent of the value of the import with the Commercial Bank of Syria to cover import paymen ts when they came due. September 2. Restrictions were reinforced against ac- quiring foreign exchange through the unofficial market. Henceforth, Syrian residents were required to use only their own foreign exchange resources for import paymen ts. November 15. The seven approved import lists were un if ied in one list. Payments for Invisibles August 11. Sales of foreign exchange for travel and medical expenses abroad as well as for imports of books, newspapers, and other printed matter were shifted from a special rate of LS 11.25 = US$1 to the prpmotion rate of LS 22.5 = US$1. The travel allowance per trip was set at US$1,000 to all countries other than Jordan and Lebanon, for which the limit was maintained at LS 2,000 per trip. May 16. An export promotion committee was estab- lished (under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister) to direct and supervise the exportation process and all establishments engaged in export. The committee will specify commodities and amounts to be exported by each establishment or m in is t ry, and it will specify the privileges and incentives that can be granted to exporters. Capital February 26. New incentives were announced in order to promote foreign inves tment in agriculture. These in- cluded: (1) a seven-year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; (2) exemption from income tax on 50 percent of profits; (3) exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of building materials, tools, vehicles, and other equ ipmen t; (4) permission to import materials needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turnover; and (5) authorization to open foreign currency accounts. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Tanzania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tanzania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 51.7186 and T Sh 51.7192, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the administra- tion of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two author- ized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, virtually all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over exchange operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania, and export control, by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state-trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a Convertible Nonresident Account or Loro Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals temporarily resident in Tanzania, firms, companies, or other organi- 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Ind ian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malawi kwacha, Mozambique meti- cais, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda sh i l l ings, Zambian kwa- cha, and Zimbabwe dollars. zations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania, for- eign diplomatic missions, the United Nations or other international organizations, and their officials in Tanzania are designated as nonresident accounts. Accounts main- tained by nonresident Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals, who were normally resident in Tanzania and have become nonresidents, are also treated as nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are broadly divided into two categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tan- zania w i thout any fu r ther scrutiny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tanzania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after obtaining approval from the Bank of Tanzania. In total, there are six subcategories of nonresident accounts, namely, External, Shipping/Airline, Special, Ordinary, Expatriate, and Un- specified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals nor- mally resident in Tanzania, who have gone abroad on vacation, emp loymen t, or for other purposes may main- tain both Special and Ordinary Accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Some imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain goods listed in the Import Control Notice of April 8, 1980, known as Open General License, are not being licensed; they may be freely imported, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods not listed require specific licenses. Under the Own Foreign Exchange Import Scheme, import licenses are issued on request for importation of a specified list of commodities. For values not exceeding T Sh 10,000 in each case, imports not financed with official foreign exchange do not require licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for in- dicative foreign exchange allocations for goods to be imported subject to specific licenses. Although manufac- turers are permitted to import many goods directly, the importation of specified goods is restricted to centralized import agencies. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, individual consignments of imports amoun t ing to T Sh 20,000 or above are subject to com- pulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quan t i ty, qua l i ty, and price. All merchandise imports by the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania unless exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import du ty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products .) 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Non- citizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tan- zania eventually may remit abroad, throughout their period of emp loymen t, up to one third of their mon th ly salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Appli- cations to remit more than one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 6,000 a mon th, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are not granted, and family remittances by residents to relatives abroad have been suspended. A traveler is allowed to take out up to T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products handled by state-trading orga- nizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected w i thout an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two mon ths from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon their collection, with the following exceptions. Exporters of traditional products (six traditional export crops) are entitled to retain up to 10 percent of their export earnings to finance imports needed for their production activities. Exporters of nontraditional products are entitled to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and in some cases, up to 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Exporters involved in a production activity must use all of their retained foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts essential to their pro- duction activities, whereas export traders must use 50 percent of their retained foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts, and the remainder may be used to import goods on the list that are permitted to be financed by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market. Retained earnings may be transferred among export producers and from export traders to export producers through the banking system at the prevailing official exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in 480 convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to main- tain himself and his dependen ts and has no ostensible means of livelihood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the inves tment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure even tual repatriation the inves tment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Inves tment (Protection) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic inves tment in specified types of production require approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate w i th in Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm, other than jewelry constituting the personal effec ts of a traveler, are subject to ind iv idual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths on ly. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1986 Exports and Export Proceeds February I. The Export Retention Scheme was liber- alized by raising the rate of retention for exporters of nontraditional products to 50 percent and by allowing the free transferability of retained earnings among export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution producers and from export traders to export producers through the banking system at the prevailing official exchange rate. The list of permissible imports under the "own foreign exchange" scheme was expanded. July 1. The export tax rebate scheme was abolished. September 1. The Export Retention Scheme was further liberalized. Exporters of nontraditional products were entitled to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and in some cases, up to 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. The list of permissible imports under the "own foreign exchange" scheme was expanded. TANZANIA 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners as well as other cons idera t ions. The Exchange Equa l iza t ion Fund an- nounces daily the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buy ing and max imum selling rates that com- mercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1986 the middle official rate was B 26.13 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to autho- rized banks and au thor ized persons. All incom ing ex- change must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments); certain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification.1 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Com- merce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur- rency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency deposits with commercial banks in Thai- land. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restrictions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. Among baht deposits with commercial banks there are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations 'No such notification has yet been issued. 482 based in Thailand, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely w i th the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign cur- rency transferred from abroad, with amoun ts transferred from other Transferable Accoun ts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign cur- rency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other paymen ts to residents. Funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Account must be credited to Blocked Ac- counts. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current paymen ts, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thai- land; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is invo lved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported free ly, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other i tems is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are subject to licensing. Im- ports of tea leaf, tea dus t, and skimmed milk are subject to a requ i rement that the impor ter purchase a propor- tionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon subm iss ion of d o c um e n t s; the specific ap- proval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit w i th an expiry date exceeding nine mon ths. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of paymen t" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 20,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the M in is try of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for in- visibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance prem iums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, educational expenses abroad, and import payments, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange with- out supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized money changers are prohibited from selling foreign cur- rency to the general public; their business of transacting foreign means of payment is restricted to the buying of foreign currency notes or traveler's checks payable in foreign currencies; all such proceeds must be sold to authorized banks within seven days. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$1,500 per person (US$2,000 for businessmen and government offi- cials) for a trip of not more than 10 days, or the equivalent of US$150 a day (US$200 for businessmen and govern- ment officials) for a trip of not more than 15 days where a visa is not required and for a trip of not more than 30 days where a visa is required. These allowances are allowed on the condition that foreign currencies are taken out in the form of traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, credit card allowances, and traveling letters of credit. For foreign currencies taken out in other forms, such as d ra f t s, a max imum of only US$3,000 is allowed auto- matically; for an amount of more than US$3,000, a formal request must be submitted to the Bank of Thailand. For business or official travel, US$200 a day is allowed, and additional foreign exchange not exceeding US$100 a day may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment ex- penses. Departing Thai residents are subject to a tax at a rate of B 1,000 for a trip by air and B 500 for a trip by other means of transportation. For family remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amoun ts above these limits require approval from the Bank of Thailand upon verifi- cation. A person may take out local cu r rency not ex- ceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport), or foreign currency not exceeding US$1,000 for one person (US$2,000 for a family traveling on a single passport) or the equivalent in the form of notes and coin, without the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities. An amount above this limit, but not more than the allowed limit according to the duration of travel, may be sold in other forms of foreign currencies, e.g., traveler's checks. The resale of foreign currency to a person in transit is allowed, provided that the record of foreign currency sold to a commercial bank or authorized agent is shown, and that the purchase is not greater than the amount previously sold. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are subject to licensing. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions, and in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.2 All other commod- 2These include gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other THAILAND ities may be exported free ly, except to South Africa. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in value must be made through irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs where shipments of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in value and, with minor excep- tions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in value. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of paymen t, but in any case not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments or other articles up to any value. The export of sugar is subject to export levies referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coin or traveler's checks payable in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 2,000 without a permit (or B 4,000 for a family traveling on one passport). Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferential treatment under the Inves tment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29, 1977); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires approval by the Bank of Thailand. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The Foreign Debt Committee must approve external borrowing by the public sector. specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain fo rms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to certain markets are also subject to licensing. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewe lry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tures exchanges are pro- hibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance; for gold bu l l ion, the M in is t ry periodically fixes an au- thorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest prem ium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this prem ium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export du ty or taxes. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 21. The following ad jus tmen ts of tariff and import duties were introduced: (1) a reduction of the import du ty on polyvinyl chloride from B8 to B7 per kilogram; (2) a reduction of the import du ty on glass tubes for use in the manufacturing of syringes from 20 percent to 15 percent and on glass tubes for use as vials from 30 percent to 15 percent; and (3) the re-introduction of a 30 percent tariff on alum. February 27. Imports of semifinished and parts of garments for undergarments and outergarments for men, boys, women, girls, and infan ts, with exceptions for collars, cuffs, waist bands, pockets, and cuffs at the bottom, were prohibited. The prohibition also covers garments and parts of garments containing a certain specified percentage of cotton or man-made fiber. March 7. Permission was granted for the importation of 5,377 and 705 units of two-wheel walking tractors and used four-wheel tractors, respectively, for the period up to the end of the year. March 7. Permission was granted for imports of 1,000 tons of kenaf before August 31, 1986. July 3. A ban on imports of single-cylinder diesel engines with displacement volume of 331 to l,100c.c. was imposed to promote local diesel engine production. July 16. Permission was granted for imports of 10,500 tons of kenaf before October 31, 1986. If the importers are unable to import the full amount within the specified period, the amount of kenaf outstanding may be brought in between March 1-September 30, 1987. November 14. New regulations on soybean meal import were announced requiring traders to submit import ap- plications before February 28,1987 together with evidence of purchase of local soybean meal between September 1, 484 1986 and February 28, 1987. The permitted ratio of local purchase to import was set at 1:1, with a max imum import allowance of 120,000 tons. December 18. The following adjustments in customs tariff were introduced: (1) a reduction of the du ty on provitamins and vitamins for the production of animal feed, chemical solutions containing radioactive elements, graphite crucibles of less than 1-inch diameter, imported components and parts for the production of telephone and cameras, fire-proof garments, and copper for the production of printed circuit board; (2) exemption of the duty on dental mold made of plastering material and im- ported materials for re-export; and (3) the re-introduction of a 30 percent du ty on cast-iron valves. Exports and Export Proceeds January 14. The permitted ratio of coffee exports between nonmember and member countries of the Inter- national Coffee Organization (ICO) was increased from 1.1:1 to 2.76:1. In addition, the floor price of coffee beans at which exporters are required to purchase from farmers in order to obtain export quotas was set at B 39 per kilogram for delivery in Bangkok. January 16. The prohibition on exports of rice bran was relaxed un t il April 30, 1986. January 21. Export taxes on eucalyptus, pinewood, and bamboo were removed. January 23. Rice stock requirements were reduced to 500 tons for all rice exporters, with the exception of exporters of rice in bags containing a maximum of 12 kilograms, for whom the required m in imum stock was set at 250 tons. January 31. The export premium on all k inds of rice was lifted. February 2. Licensing requirements were imposed on the export of 29 types of wildlife animals and wild animal carcasses, including some types of birds, gekkoes, toads, and snakes. February 25. The coffee export regulation of January 14, 1986 was replaced by a new regulation implementing the suspension of the ICO's quota system. March 27. The Bank of Thailand reduced the refinancing rate of promissory notes arising from exports from 7.0 to 5.0 percent per annum, and those arising from exports of new products with no traditional markets and those issued by small exporters and small-scale industries from 5.0 to 4.0 percent per annum. The financing rates were corre- spondingly reduced to 7.0 percent per annum for all exports. May 17. Regulations governing exports of garments to countries setting import quotas were announced. Under the new r egu l a t ion s, expo r t e rs w i ll rece ive a quo ta amounting to 100 percent of their export performance in the previous year; the previous quota was 70 percent, with the additional 30 percent being pooled into a centrally allocated quota system. July 1. It was announced that the free export policy for maize will be maintained and further extended to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cover Japan and Taiwan! for the 1986/87 season. In addition, the requirement of a guarantee for maize exports was abolished to decrease the burden on maize exporters and improve their competitiveness. July 31. Regulations on longan exports were relaxed. Exporters were no longer required to be members of the Thai Fruit and Vegetable Export Association or Coop- eratives registered for longan production and trade. August 20. The regulation on refinancing of promissory notes arising from exports was amended. The maximum value for refinancing export bills issued against receipts was increased from 50 to 60 percent of the value assessed by commercial banks. For rice, kenaf, and tapioca, the amount was raised from 60 to 70 percent for the period from August 20 to December 31, 1986, after which it would be reduced to the same rate as that applied to other goods. In addition, the penalty rate was reduced from 11 percent to 8 percent, bringing it in line with interest rates in the money market. The reduction of the tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. THAILAND penalty rate was also accompanied by a relaxation of penalty collection methods. September 9. The maximum value for refinancing of maize export bills issued against warehouse receipts was increased from 60 to 80 percent of the assessed value for the period September 9-December 31, 1986. October 13. The refinancing rate on promissory notes arising from exports of textiles to the United States was reduced from 12.5 percent to 11 percent per annum, while the penalty rate was reduced from 4.5 percent to 2 percent per annum. October 19. Changes in tapioca export regulations were announced. The amount of export guarantee was reduced from B 400 per ton to B 100 per ton. The warehouse notification for stock-checking purposes is to be made only once a year, 30 days before the first checking. The bonus quota was set at 1:1 for exports to EC markets and non-EC markets alike, and the period of fu lf i l lment of the bonus quota was set at 270 days. November 11. The regulation for tapioca exports to the EC was changed to the effect that shipments can be effected earlier than previously stipulated. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Bur- kina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct inves tment and all outward inves tmen t, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, and offices of government minis- tries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. Forwarding and receipt of bank notes through the mail by authorized intermediaries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and virtually all export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are sub ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts between agencies of the BCEAO. 486 Licenses for the export of cereals and other food crops are issued by the Commission Nationale d'A t tr ibu t ion des Licenses d'Expor ta t ion, but within the quota and volume limits set by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports, after the approval of the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account coun try, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current paymen ts in relation to The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur- itania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not perm i t ted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be cred- ited with BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Ac- counts in Francs may also be debited, without authori- zation, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and are for commercial purposes. Imports from all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import program established each year; as ye t, however, the program has not been established, and almost all requests for import licenses, irrespective of the origin of the goods, are granted, except as noted below. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Com- merce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned milk, tobacco and tobacco produc ts, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution alcoholic beverages originating in foreign countries or having an alcohol content exceeding 35 degrees (Baume) and imported from the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal Administration, and certain imports of a special na ture. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange (spot), but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Purchases of foreign ex- change for down payment are subject to prior authori- zation by the Minister, which may be granted only on the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent of each transaction invo lv ing capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au- thorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re tu rn to Togo must be surrendered w i th in eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence perm i t, or work perm i t, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period. Residents may at any time and w i thout indicating the purpose of the transfer make paymen ts abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident trav- elers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the French Franc Area. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. TOGO Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) has a monopoly over the export of phosphates, and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cocoa, coffee, cotton, groundnu ts, and certain other agricultural commodities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but licenses are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports determines that there is a food grain surplus. The Technical Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable surplus and in early November (by November 10) to establish the actual export ceilings. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 and the domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effec- tive repatriation of such receipts through BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. 3This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA f rancs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency trave ler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the t rave le r, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign cu r rency. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance;4 beginning June 24, 1981 at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrowing. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liqui- dation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, including inves tmen ts made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 488 which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to fi- nance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans consti- tuting a direct inves tmen t, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Inves tment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 25 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun try require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments May 1. SONACOM'S monopoly on the import of salt and soap was ended. April 9. Import duties on certain raw materials and semiprocessed goods imported by domestic indus tr ies were reduced by 75 percent. Duties on certain finished goods imported for re-export were lowered by 50 percent. April 11. Import duties on one type of oil, hurricane lanterns, new tires, batteries, and tobacco were reduced by between 45 percent and 75 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 1. SONACOM 'S monopoly on corrugated iron prod- ucts and concrete reinforcement rods was ended. Exports and Export Proceeds April 9. Export duties on industrial exports were abolished. November 19. A commission was set up to grant licenses for the export of cereals and other foodcrops. A technical committee was also established to set export quotas. TOGO 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga (commonly referred to as the Tonga pa'anga), which has been pegged at par to the Australian dollar since November 1976. Tonga has no central bank, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. As a transitional arrange- men t, the Bank of Tonga quotes daily rates for eight other currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar, the intervention currency. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is approximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. However, for export receipts, the Bank buys foreign exchange at the midpoint rate, upon submission of documentary evidence that the foreign exchange is derived from export sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On Decem- ber 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates of the pa'anga were T$1.464 and T$1.501, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Exchange regulations require the timely surrender of export proceeds to the Bank of Tonga, but this is not rigidly enforced. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for motor vehicles and eggs. The importation of certain items is prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are primarily for revenue purposes, and protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as paint and wire fencing. ^.S. dollar, Fiji dollar, pound sterling, New Zealand dollar, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, deutsche ma rk, and Singapore dollar. Payments for Invisibles Tonga's system of exchange controls provides for specified limits on sales of foreign exchange for travel, education, and health purposes; such limits may be exceeded with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Tonga has discretionary authority to approve foreign exchange sales for travel expenses up to T$ 1,000 in any 12 months on submission of valid sea or air tickets. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freights earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns forwarded to their respective head offices. Payment for education and health purposes may be approved on submission of evidence of the intended use of foreign exchange, and there is no fixed limit for such foreign exchange sales. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Tonga within 90 days of shipment, but these regulations are not rigidly enforced. There are no taxes or quan t i ta t ive restrictions on exports, but coconut oil, copra, and bananas may be exported commercially only through the Tonga Commodities Board. Whole coconuts may be exported by the private sector after obtaining approval from the Commodities Board. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct inves tmen t, which so far remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for a license, with approval depending on the type of inves tmen t. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic production, rather than competing with it, are generally preferred. Under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, foreign investors involved in manufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inpu ts, a five-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. Acquisition of financial assets abroad by Tongan resi- dents is, in principle, not permitted. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$3.60 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$3.56853 and TT$3.63150, respectively, per US$1. An exchange rate of TT$2.40 = US$1 applies to imports of essential food items, Pharmaceuticals, certain agricultural inputs, and school books. On December 31, 1986 the official selling rate for the U.S. dollar in this preferential market was TT$2.42100 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad.2 Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank exercises direct exchange control approval authority on imports of invisible items by re- quiring persons wishing to import such items to apply to the Central Bank, which will authorize in advance the amount of foreign exchange that will be made available for the importation of the specified item. Approval au- thority with respect to payment for visible imports has been delegated to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles, such authority has been dele- gated to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency3 4 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas paymen ts and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; paymen ts to South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local non-resident-controlled compa- nies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an arrangement with the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to 'Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2On January 23, 1987 the exchange rate system was unified at the rate ofTT$3.60 = US$1. 3Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all cur- rencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 4If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves frequent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account be submitted to the authorities. collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. From April 7, 1981 the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago no longer repatriates Trinidad and Tobago currency notes from the monetary authorities of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM, countries.5 Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency,6 except South African currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur- chases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Accounts in U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be trans- ferred freely between residents of countries outside Trin- idad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the CARICOM countries to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional on the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts are normally credited with the bal- ance of capital assets of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities that are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. Income arising from Blocked Accounts (such as interest and rents) is freely 5The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 6Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO remittable, provided the tax liabilities are settled. Gen- erally, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligible for remittance to nonresidents after a period of four years. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. In principle, trade with CARICOM countries is to be effected through the CARICOM multilateral clearing facility (CMCF). The domestic importer or exporter makes pay- ments or receipts in domestic currency, with correspond- ing credits and debits recorded for the two countries by the CMCF agent. Foreign exchange settlement is deferred until fixed semiannual settlement periods and is effected in U.S. dollars. Effective March 31, 1983, Trinidad and Tobago suspended the CMCF arrangement. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cos- metics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and completely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice, oils, and fats are subject to state trading. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. General import licenses for importing certain inputs for the manufacturing industry are issued in conjunction with Duty-Free Licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. For these inputs, a specific license is no longer required for shipments of items in the Negative List, or for items that originate or are consigned from sources from which all goods are subject to import license. Where specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Pay- ments for all imports require exchange control approval. Annual foreign exchange sales for imports are guided by a foreign exchange budget for imports. The allocation criteria give priority to capital goods, raw materials, other industrial inputs, and essential food and drugs. Importers 492 must obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank before an import license can be activated. Imports other than food and drugs are subject to stamp duties at the rate of 12 percent of c.i.f. value for certain items and 6 percent on others. No stamp duties apply on imports of raw materials. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign ex- change must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for current international transactions, except with respect to South Africa. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange w i th in prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required, and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. For outward remittances of gifts and donations, the commercial banks must obtain approval from the Central Bank. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of TT$2,500 a person a year; for business travel, TT$350 a day for a max imum of 30 days for one trip; and for health care, TT$12,000 a year. Allowances for education abroad are the equivalent of TT$8,000 for schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for correspondence courses, and TT$700 once every two years for warm clothing. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$200. Trav- elers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allowance up to a maximum of TT$1,200 in foreign currency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$ 1,200 upon showing evidence of having purchased such funds from authorized dealers. For sums in excess of TT$1,200, nonresidents must obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an individual license. These include some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar com- panies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax, which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Purchases of petroleum and petroleum products from Trinidad and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Tobago by other CARICOM countries are aided by the provisions of the CARICOM Oil Facility established by the Government; the facility provides long-term, low-interest loans to finance the increase over the level on January 1, 1979 in the cost of oil imports from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. Exporters to Guyana are required to ensure that the Guyanese importers are in possession of appropriate approval documents issued by the Central Bank of Guyana, attesting to the availability of foreign exchange to make the necessary settlements. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange trans- actions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposito- ries have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization of sterling securities is permitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation, provided it has been registered with the TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for in- vestment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original invest- ment will normally be phased over a maximum of five years, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the full proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities that are either irre- deemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold an interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospec- tive foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the frame- work of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, that is, industries that have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago, or that are not being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu ture development. Every pioneer manufacturer is en- titled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to non- resident-controlled local companies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. However, the monthly average of its net foreign 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO exchange position must be maintained within specified quantitative ceilings. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance (1) one party to every trans- action in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 percent (prefer- ential duty) or 15 percent (general du ty), and those of partly worked gold at 15 percent (preferential du ty) or 25 percent (general duty). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 14. The 12 percent stamp duty on imports of raw materials was abolished. May 16. Procedures for importing certain inputs for manufacturing industry were changed. This change cov- ered the introduction of General Import Licenses to be issued in conjunction with Duty-Free Licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. The new arrange- ment removes the need for a specific license for each shipment of items on the Negative List, or items that originate or are consigned from sources from which all goods are subject to import license. September 1. The procedures for the granting of licenses for imports from CARICOM countries were made more liberal. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The buy ing and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1986 the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.13107 and D 0.13137, respectively, per F 1; and D 0.8360 and D 0.8440, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979, forward quotations have been provided daily.2 The buy ing and selling rates of authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. With specified exceptions, sales of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks are subject to a tax of 0.5 percent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Commerce Directorate of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which determines, in consultation with the Central Bank, the Industry Directorate, and other concerned ministries, the imports and exports that are to be prohibited or liberalized as well as the imports that are to be subject to quotas in accordance with the Governmen t's overall program and the trade agreements with foreign countries. The Direc- torate, in collaboration with the Central Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. Pay- ments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese y en, Kuwa i ti dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, UAE dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Luxembourg francs, Qatar r iya ls, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates on ly; Algerian d inars are quoted spot on ly. 2The forward rates are calculated for periods of one to eight mon ths for the selling rates and for a period of up to six mon ths for the buy ing rates. Selling rates for up to 12 months are quoted for hoteliers for services provided to nonresidents. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian f rancs, deu tsche mark, French f rancs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. accounts may be credited freely with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies in- cluding bank notes declared to the cus toms, with interest on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credits require prior authorization, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of resi- dence of the payer), for transfers to other Foreign Ac- counts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency from the Central Bank. Such currency may be transferred abroad or remitted in Tunisia to the account holder or to any other nonresident beneficiary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents without authorization. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresident, with foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, with authorized paymen ts by residents in favor of the account holder, with interest payable by the authorized interme- diaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates, with the proceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder, and with foreign bank notes declared to the customs. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign coun try. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their non- resident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from another Capital Account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be freely debited for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more Capital Accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a fam i ly. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities, the ma in tenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holders' parents and offspring residing in Tunisia at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts may not be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Physical and juridical per- sons of French nationality holding Capital Accounts may transfer the balances belonging to them in each such account as of June 30, 1986. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; these accounts may be opened free ly, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be credited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals em- ployed in enterprises authorized under Decree-Law No. 85-14 of October 11, 1985. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonresident foreign enter- prises holding contracts in Tunisia are authorized freely to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars for deposit of the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a Foreign Account in Con- vertible Foreign Currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's con- tract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such proceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or central bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, w i thout the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, paymen ts to the Tunisian Government or public ins t i tu t ions, and settle- ment of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a fam i ly. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, 496 provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Physical or juridical persons of French nationality holding Suspense Accounts may transfer the balances belonging to them in each such account as of June 30, 1986. Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be maintained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian individual or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency transferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited free ly. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. A system of import controls is applied under which there are different procedures for d ifferent operators (manu- facturers, traders, and state monopolies) and special procedures for specified categories of transactions (e.g., export firms, and imports w i thout payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected f ree ly, subject to quota, or prohibited. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in the Official Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981, as amended subsequen t ly. Importation of the liberalized products does not require prior authorization and is effected by an import certificate, obtained upon presen- tation of a commercial contract, which is valid for six mon ths. The import certificate procedure may be used by industrial enterprises, which export 25 percent or more of their ou tpu t, for imports of raw materials and semifin- ished goods used in their production; by inves tment promoters authorized to import capital goods required for their projects, provided they are indicated in the authorization certificate; by commercial representatives in Tunisia of the suppliers of these goods; and by leasing companies. Importation of products prohibited or subject to quota requires an annual import authorization, an import license, or an import card issued by the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce and endorsed by the Central Bank of Tunisia. An "annual import authorization" is available to indus- trialists and agencies responsible for providing the country with certain staples or indus tr ial products; approvals are not transferable between enterprises. Each industrialist must submit a detailed documen t, giving information not only on expected import requirements for the following year and the actual consumption of imported or domes- tically produced inpu ts in the previous year, but also on sales, production, emp loymen t, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authorizations are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an automatic extension of the portion unused on December 31 of that year for an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution additional one-year period. Importers may make changes among the products specified in their import authoriza- tions, provided that such a change does not reduce their planned purchase of domestically produced inpu ts. Import licenses are valid for six mon ths. In some cases this period may be reduced or extended by the competent authorities in accordance with import requ iremen ts. A subsection of the licensing system is in the form of "traders' quotas," applicable to some 35 commodity groups, with special emphasis on consumer durables. Quotas are allocated on a "points system ," w i th the most important criteria relating to firm size (employment and turnover, the latter differentiating between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographical location, the degree of specialization, and the age of the firm are also considered in the allocation process. To meet urgent needs for their exclusive use, importers in particular sectors of economic activity (mainly industry and agriculture) can obtain "importer's cards" to cover goods up to a limit of D 500 a year for each importer. The limit has not been raised for a number of years, and few importers currently use this option. State-trading organizations are the exclusive importers of about one fourth of the total value of imports, some 50 percent of which are in the form of energy products. Among the important public-trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des Cereales (grains), Ellouhoum (meat), and the Office Na- tional de 1'Huile (vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, beverages, tobacco, and medical products are imported exclusively by other state agencies. The state- trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of specified prod- ucts. For items that are not on the free list, state trading agencies are required to complete the same licensing formalities as those applicable to the private sector. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for ex- port and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. In specified cases, imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import du ty. Importers must have received a general authorization (agremenf) and a customs code number as a prior con- dition for obtaining an import certificate, an import authorization, an import license, or an importer's card. All import documen ts involving paymen ts must be dom- iciled with an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated com- mercial bank for all paymen ts that have received prior authorization. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for fu tu re settlement of their merchandise imports, for a max imum term of eight mon ths, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied, the most important being a 5 percent tax to cover customs formalities. TUNISIA Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized intermediaries. Payments for a number of current invisibles are freely approved, provided that they are properly documented. These include (1) various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, and brokerage); (2) paymen ts for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of interest and amortization arising from authorized contractual obligations to non- residents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC ac- counts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these up to fixed limits for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters, hotel owners, travel agencies, and other external service industries may use EFAC balances freely for expenses related to publicity abroad, and up to fixed limits for certain other expenses. Nonresident enterprises producing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make all their payments abroad; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms cov- ered by Law No. 72-38 may be freely transferred up to D 6,000 a year for business travel; amounts unused over two consecutive years may be carried over, provided that the total of such transfers does not exceed D 10,000 in any one year. A business travel allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank for industrialists and businessmen whose professional activity requires travel abroad and who are unable to open EFAC accounts or business travel ac- counts based on Law No. 72-38. The annual allocation for each beneficiary is initially determined by the Central Bank at the time of approval, taking into account the applicant's import turnover. In the years thereafter, the annual amount of the allocation is determined by the authorized intermediary with which the authorization is domiciled, using the same criteria. Payments for certain other current invisibles are ap- proved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children over 2 and under 12 years of age). The monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equiv- alent of D 300 for students in Canada and the United States, D 240 for those in Western European countries, and D 180 for those in other countries. A foreign national employed under contract may transfer up to 50 percent of his net wage or salary w i thout limit if his family is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a max imum of D 150 a mon th if his family lives in Tunisia.3 Foreign experts 3There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manu- fac tur ing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA employed by the public sector may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits specified in their con- tracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 percent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a mon th. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonres iden ts, diplomats, persons traveling under the "Agence de Cooperation Technique," emigrant workers, s tuden ts, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempted from the tax. The export of Tunisian dinar bank notes or coin is prohibited. Unless central bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic bank notes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 percent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a max imum of D 100, if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain nonenergy ex- ports (amounting to about 3 percent of the total in 1986) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V in; the export of cereals, that of the Office des Cereales; and the export of olive oil, that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within ten days from the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due w i th in 30 days from the date of sh ipmen t. Central Bank approval is not normally required, under certain conditions, for the ex- tension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward for a max imum term of 6 months (12 mon ths for hoteliers), through authorized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the pro- ceeds from their merchandise exports. Exporters, hotel owners, travel agencies, and all providers of services abroad may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) ac- counts denominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits are 4 percent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 percent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. Hotel owners, travel agencies, and other external services industries may credit to such accounts up to 4 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized intermediaries may grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises eligible under Law No. 72-38. Resident manufacturing industries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to credit 2 percent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds to Busi- ness Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manufacturing enterprises (i.e., enterprises with at least 498 66 percent capital ownership by nonresidents and financed through the import of convertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign countries. However, there are certain EFAC facilities for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in free ly; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coin is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to transfer the principal of, and all current earnings from, such inves tmen ts. Foreign inves tment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Inves tment Code (Law No. 69-35); by Law No. 81-56, providing incentives for inves tment in manufacturing indus try and for industrial decentrali- zation; by Law No. 82-67 of August 6, 1982, providing incentives for investment in the agricultural and fishery sectors; by Law No. 84-20 concerning export trading companies; and by Law No. 86-85 of September 1, 1986, providing incentives for inves tment in tourism. These benef i ts include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liquidation, even if these exceed the initial foreign ex- change inves tmen t, plus the income from its capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises, in- cluding an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Under Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents, the field of activity of such institutions has been extended; and they are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their nonresident customers and to engage in banking and exchange operations with residents, in particular by providing foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, investing their own foreign exchange resources in equities of resident enter- prises, and accepting funds from residents that could be used to finance productive activities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a m in imum of D 1,750 and a max imum of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 4Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for those who left between August 20,1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after December 31, 1974; D 15,000 for those leaving Tunisia after December 31, 1978, who are over 60 years of age and are Tunisian nationals; and D 25,000 for those of French nationality residing and working in Tunisia as of October 25, 1980 and who subsequently retired and left Tunisia permanently after that date. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds from inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts under certain conditions. The amortization of loans taken up with central bank approval from nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 10. The max imum period for which forward exchange cover can be obtained from the Central Bank was extended to eight months for importers and six months for exporters from the date of the commercial contract, subject to limits of six mon ths and three mon ths, respectively, from the date of customs declaration (im- putation douaniere). At the same t ime, the scope of such cover was widened to include hoteliers for services provided to nonresidents with an upper limit of 12 mon ths from the date of the initial tourism contract. Imports and Import Payments January 2. Under a new regulation, an import trans- action may be effected with a single document (titre TUNISIA unique) instead of the several (up to six) documents that had been required previously. October 14. Imports of raw materials and semifinished products for enterprises exporting at least 25 percent of their turnover as well as of spare parts for use in the agricultural sector, hospitals, and services sector were transferred to the free system of import certificates. November 4. Imports of capital goods for newly ap- proved investment projects and raw materials for phar- maceutical industries were transferred to the system of import certificates. Payments for Invisibles February 25. The travel allowance to Morocco ceased to be treated specially, and was made subject to the general regulations. October 20. The mon th ly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad was increased to the equivalent of D 300 for studies in Canada and the United States, D 240 for studies in Western European countries, and D 180 for studies in other countries. Exports and Export Proceeds January 2. Exporting procedures were simplified with the introduction of the system of titre unique. March 18. The number of prohibited export items was reduced. May 5. The period for which exporters can grant export credits w i thout prior authorization was extended to 180 days, and exports within 30 days after shipment were declared exempt from any prior authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles April 21. Procedures for repatriation of proceeds from invisibles were simplified with the introduction of a single document instead of six documents previously required. Capital July 19. Law No. 86-71 amended and supplemented Law No. 82-67 (of August 6, 1982), providing incentives for inves tmen ts in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. September 1. Incentives for investments in the tourism sector were introduced (Law No. 86-85). 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions, and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which exchange rates for the lira quoted by the Central Bank are adjusted on a daily basis. The Central Bank maintains a margin of 0.5 percent between buying and selling rates. The commercial banks are free to establish their own selling rates daily on the basis of the announced official selling rate of the Central Bank. The commercial banks are also free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank market. Foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place through the inter- bank market. On December 31, 1986 the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 755.90 and LT 767.24, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibility of the Prime Ministry, to which the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is attached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regulates all matters related to foreign exchange operations. Fifty-four commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account, including allocating foreign ex- change for imports not subject to prior permit. In the case of imports subject to prior permit, authorized com- mercial banks directly allocate foreign exchange and issue import licenses upon receiving the approved import permit from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; the Undersecretariat also issues export licenses but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made in U.S. dollars. Certain commercial transactions with Czechoslovakia, Iraq, Libya, Malta, Poland, Ro- mania, Tunisia, and the U.S.S.R., and with the other members of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresidents as well as residents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange with commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange; such accounts are disposable at the discretion of the holders. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable except those explicitly prohibited or subject to prior permit. Only imports of 500 narcotics, weapons, and ammunition are prohibited with- out a special permit from the authorities. Imports of other goods are divided into two categories. The first, which contains goods subject to licenses issued by the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, consists of 111 items, mainly raw materials, spare parts, intermediate goods and tools for industry, and electrical equipment. The second category of imports covers goods not subject to prior licensing; within this category are a number of items that can enter the country only after payment of a specific levy (in addition to customs duties) to certain extra budgetary funds. The importation of all goods not included in either of the above lists is freely permitted with payment of customs duties. However, imports of sold, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may only be made with special permission from the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a project, permission may be given by the State Planning Organization. Imports from coun- tries where foreign trade is nationalized may be carried out by public sector or by individual companies, provided they export to these countries. All imports by the public sector have to be authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months. The validity may be extended by an authorized commercial bank for up to 12 additional months and can be further extended by the Undersecre- tariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state eco- nomic enterprises, and government departments. In the case of freely importable items, including those in the "Fund" list, no special permit is required to apply for an import license to any authorized bank. In the case of imports subject to special permit, import licenses are issued by the Central Bank or any authorized bank upon approval granted by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or by way of acceptance credits; partial prepayments are authorized under certain conditions. Guarantee deposits, which must be made by the im- porter before the import license is issued, are refunded after the goods are cleared through customs and the foreign payment has been made; these deposits do not earn interest. The general guarantee deposit rate is 7 percent of the foreign exchange requested, which is applicable to imports by commercial importers. Public sector imports for the Izmir International Fair, electrical energy books and other publications, portions of imports paid with a foreign credit with a more than one-year term, importers who make use of their own foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution account to pay for imports, imports of fuel oil, whea t, sugar, coal, fertilizer, vegetable oils, medicine, x-ray photographs, and imports from Cyprus are exempted from the guarantee deposit requirement. A special rate of 1 percent is applicable to industrialists' own import requirements, public sector imports, imports financed through acceptance credits, imports by foreign trade joint stock companies, and imports based on an incentive certificate. Exporters who make use of their own foreign exchange accounts to pay for imports not subject to prior authorization are exempted from placement of guarantee deposits; they are also exempted from this requirement for up to the equivalent of 20 percent of the foreign exchange held in such accounts in the case of imports subject to prior authorization. Regulations concerning imports without allocation of foreign exchange by the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or professional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey, temporary imports by foreign contractors and diplomats, and imports by Turkish, workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign ex- change accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties range mostly up to 15 percent in the case of raw materials, between 10 and 30 percent for intermediate and semifinished products, and between 30 and 40 percent for finished goods; higher rates apply to certain consumer goods considered luxuries. Imported goods are also subject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp duty of 6 percent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 percent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs du ty, municipal tax, and customs clearance expense. A 5 percent import surcharge is levied on certain iron, steel, and plastic products from the European Communities. Payments for Invisibles Specific Central Bank authorization is required only for specified types of transactions; all other invisible transactions are handled by commercial banks within norms issued by the Central Bank. The following trans- actions are subject to specific licensing by the Central Bank: business expenses of Turkish firms abroad, trans- fers related to copyrights for scientific and artistic works (up to US$10,000 may be provided in advance by the Central Bank), proceeds of foreign air transportation companies, payments related to insurance, revenue of foreign consulates, and government expenses. The trans- fer of income related to foreign investment and the payment of interest on foreign credits are permitted freely within the terms of Foreign Capital Law No. 6224 and similar laws and regulations. All resident Turkish nationals may travel abroad with a maximum of US$3,000 each without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks. Banks are allowed to allocate up to US$1,500 a person a trip for tourist travel, or US$750 a person a trip for travelers under 18 years of age. Foreign nationals domiciled in Turkey may purchase from banks foreign exchange for up to US$200 a trip. For business travel, the allowance is up to US$2,000 a person TURKEY a trip. Special limits, as well as administrative norms, are in force for the purchase of foreign exchange for travel and other expenses related to medical treatment, study and other training, and assistance to conferences. Out- bound travelers are subject to a tax equivalent to US$100, payable in Turkish liras, regardless of whether there are related purchases of foreign exchange; the tax is reduced by one half in the case of travelers 18 years of age or younger. Exempted from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) participants in pilgrimages to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes, and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by Administrative Permits; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private students going abroad for education purposes; and (8) civil servants (and their families) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the Turkish lira equivalent of US$1,000 in Turkish bank notes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange that they brought in. Provided that the foreign exchange was declared at the time of entry, nonresident travelers can reconvert liras into foreign currency upon presentation of a docu- ment showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey; documentary evidence is not required for foreign exchange not ex- ceeding US$100. Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 or its equivalent, provided that such amounts were declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports fall into the following categories: (1) exports subject to permission, including re-exports, transit trade, etc.; (2) exports subject to license, applicable to 11 items (rice, fodder, crude vegetable oils, oil seeds, hides and fu rs, certain livestock, and a few other items); (3) exports subject to registration, including exports on consignment or on joint account, exports on credit, and exports related to bilateral agreements; and (4) exports from free zones in or outside Turkey or from duty-free warehouses that are not subject to permission, license, or registration. Exports of goods not falling within the above-mentioned categories are unrestricted. Barter trade is prohibited, except in permitted cases. Authorized public sector agencies and export companies with export earn- ings of at least US$50 million a calendar year may enter into barter trade. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange earn- ings in the case of merchandise exports is 80 percent. Foreign exchange not surrendered may be deposited in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, left abroad, or otherwise disposed of. The maximum period allowed for the surrender of at least 80 percent of export proceeds is three months from the date of export. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded in the case of industrial exports. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY The maximum level of rebate as of the end of 1986 was 6 percent of export value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents is subject to the same surrender requirements as proceeds from merchandise exports. Individuals residing in Turkey may accept foreign currency from nonresidents for transactions processed in Turkey. There are no limits on the importation of Turkish bank notes and coins. The importation of foreign currency is unrestricted. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wishing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in the form of foreign exchange or in kind and must obtain a license from the Foreign Capital Department of the State Planning Organization. Exempt from the requirement to bring in capital in the form of foreign exchange are certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts, or the Petroleum Law, or investments authorized to be made through the use of blocked funds by the Foreign Capital Department. Proceeds of sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred out of the country on the approval of the Foreign Capital Department, which should inform the Central Bank of the amount to be transferred. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad up to the equivalent of US$3 million in cash or in kind with authorization from the Undersecre- tariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; higher amounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers unless the investment is financed by foreign currency obtained outside Turkey. Individuals or corporations authorized to invest and conduct commercial activities abroad must provide information about their activities to the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, including the submission of an annual report of activities at the end of the calendar year. Reasonable income from real estate and proceeds from real estate sales not exceeding the purchase value of related real estate in foreign exchange inflow can be transferred abroad through the banks upon presentation of documents showing previous inflow equal to at least the initial property value. Income from real estate acquired without conversion of foreign exchange can be used in Turkey in the form of local currency but cannot be transferred abroad; such funds can be kept in blocked accounts at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to nonresidents but not transferable under existing exchange control regulations. These funds may be used in Turkey for authorized investments, for living expenses of owners and relatives (up to certain ceilings), contributions to public organizations, etc. Commercial banks authorized to operate in foreign exchange on their own account may open "exchange accounts" or "convertible Turkish lira accounts" for 502 individuals residing in Turkey or abroad. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are obligated to hold foreign exchange liquidity against letters of credit commitments, acceptance credits, and pre-export financ- ing guaranteed by banks with a maturity of up to six months (the liquidity limits for these transactions vary, depending on the liabilities position). The ratio of all foreign currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign exchange overdrafts is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement (at the end of 1986, t h is ratio was be tween 0.75 and 1.2 for all banks ). The m i n im um u t i l iza t ion ratio of foreign cu r rency deposits specifies that foreign currency-denominated loans to Turk ish exporters must be at least 50 percent of foreign cu r rency deposits. Commercial banks approved by the Prime Ministry may obtain the following types of foreign loans: (1) term credit provided directly, within a maximum maturity of one year; and (2) intermediated prefinancing commodity and acceptance credits. The banks may also guarantee foreign borrowing operations by the nonbank private sector authorized by the State Planning Organization under the terms for approved inves tment projects. Foreign trade joint stock companies may obtain directly foreign loans related to their field of activity and carrying matur- ities of up to two years with the authorization of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Under certain conditions, banks and nonbank residents may engage in foreign lending operations, in some cases with the prior approval of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. A Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) is designed to provide domestic borrowers with an ex- change rate guarantee for approved foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing under the scheme is on-lent in Turkish liras at a domestic interest rate determined on an annual basis. The difference between the interest rate on the foreign borrowing and any bank commission and the domestic interest rate charged is credited to the scheme. The difference between the lira cost at the time it is contracted and the lira cost of repayments is covered from resources of the scheme. Gold The Central Bank of Turkey is authorized to import gold to Turkey and carry out the purchases and sales of it to the public freely. Import and export of processed precious metal stones and goods for commercial purposes are subject to regulations within the export and import regime. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 15. The freedom of deposit money banks to set their own buying and selling rates was discontinued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accordingly, the rates applied by banks could not differ by more than 1 percent from the buying and selling rates used by the Central Bank. October 21. Nonbank enterprises meeting certain re- quirements were given the right to deal in foreign ex- change. Such authorized establishments may buy foreign exchange freely and sell it for invisible transactions, primarily for travel. They may fix their exchange rates within 1 percent above the bank note selling rate of the Central Bank and commercial banks. October 31. The margin between the Central Bank buying and selling rates was set at Vi of 1 percent. The 1 percent margin over the selling rate allowed to deposit money banks was eliminated, so that banks have to sell foreign exchange at a rate equal to or lower than the Central Bank rate. Banks may set their own buying rates. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The number of items whose importation is subject to prior approval was reduced from 645 to 245. Rates of import tariff were adjusted for 1,095 items, with the average tariff being somewhat lower than in 1985. The number of items subject to levies to finance extra- budgetary funds was increased from 152 to 347. July 14. The rate of advance import deposits was raised from 3 percent to 9 percent of the value of imports. At the same time, a schedule was published for reducing the rate to 3 percent by November 1986. October 9. The authorities decided not to effect further reductions in the advance import deposit rate below 7 TURKEY percent. At the same time, exemptions to the scheme were largely eliminated. October 9. A number of new items were made subject to levies and the level of levies was raised on several other items. The authorization to trade with those coun- tries whose foreign trade is nationalized was expanded from public agencies and a few large foreign trade firms to all companies, provided they export to the countries concerned. December 13. The surcharge on imports levied for the "Support and Price Stabilization Fund" was raised from 2 percent to 4 percent. December 17. The number of items requiring prior import permit was reduced from 245 to 122. December 23. The rate of stamp duty on imports was raised from 4 percent to 6 percent. Exports and Export Payments December 13. The system of premium payments on exports was expanded. Capital November 1. Limitations were placed on the net foreign asset positions of commercial banks. The foreign exchange risk ratio, or the ratio of foreign currency- denominated assets to foreign currency-denominated li- abilities, must be between 0.75 and 1.2 until January 1, 1987, and is to be reduced to between 0.9 and 1.1 by May 1, 1987. The banks are also required to extend foreign exchange credits to residents in an amount equal to at least one half of their foreign exchange deposits. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. The official exchange rate of the Uganda shilling is fixed against the U.S. dollar at a rate of U Sh 1,400 per US$1. The Bank of Uganda rarely deals in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1986 the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 1,394.40 and U Sh 1,408.40, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the inter- national market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 0.4 percent buying and 0.6 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates. Authorized banks may, subject to exchange control approval, deal forward with customers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Autho- rized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of not more than 0.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special ac- counts. Uganda maintains bilateral trade and payments 'Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche mark, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U .S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. 504 agreements with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Cuba, and the German Democratic Republic. External Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries but living in Uganda are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with trans- fers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign exchange currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts maintained with com- mercial banks. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for paymen ts to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan nationals or institutions with funds abroad may be authorized to operate Convertible Cur- rency Accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. In- tending operators of such accounts are required to disclose the sources of the funds and to put up a m in imum of the equivalent of US$5,000 to open the account. These accounts can be freely debited, and other governing regulations are similar to those for the regime of External Accounts (see above). The m in imum balance in each such account must be at least US$3,000, below which the account is liable to closure by the Bank of Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Most imports are controlled through the foreign exchange allocation system. A mon th ly foreign exchange budget is prepared by a Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange Allocation, comprising the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Energy, Finance, Transport, Planning, Indus t ry, and Commerce, and the Minister of State in the Prime Min- ister's office. Within this framework, decisions on indi- vidual requests for private sector imports are made by the Foreign Exchange Allocation and Import Licensing Committee. Foreign exchange allocations to various min- istries and departments must be backed by documents showing approval of the Central Tender Board, an original budget authorization, and the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury or a duly designated officer. Once an importer has received a foreign exchange allocation, an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import license is granted automatically. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, and a commis- sion of 0.5 percent of the license value is levied. With the exception of repeater and proprietary imports, anyone wishing to import goods valued in excess of US$20,000 is required to submit pro forma invoices from three different suppliers. Normally imports must be purchased directly from the country of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within four mon ths from the date of payment in the case of goods shipped by surface transportation, and within two months for goods brought into the country by air. Cash imports are permitted only on a c. & f. basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Committee on Invisible Imports of the Bank of Uganda. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For business travel a daily allowance of US$100-140 a person is granted, up to an annual limit of US$2,000 a person. The maximum yearly travel allowance for purposes other than business is US$500 a person. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside Uganda at the time of their overseas leave subject to the terms of the original contract. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad. Allowances for post- secondary education abroad are based on estimates of tuition fees, board and lodging, and incidental expenses; foreign exchange is not normally provided when a com- parable level of instruction is provided in Uganda. Facil- ities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment that includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. At this time, they may also remit a further US$5,000. Allowances for medical and adver- tising expenses are considered on a case-by-case basis. Applications to remit profits, dividends, and interest payments are approved on a case-by-case basis. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit specified below in the section on Capital. The export of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 30,000 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Authority has a monopoly over the export of tea; the Coffee Marketing Board, over the export of coffee; and the Lint Marketing Board, over the export of raw cotton. In 1986 the export monopoly of the Produce Marketing Board was extended from maize and beans to soya beans, sesame seeds, and UGANDA peanuts. Also in 1986 the Uganda Leather and Tanning Industry was granted sole authority to export hides and skins, and Uganda Hardware became the sole legal exporter of timber. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be collected within four months for goods shipped overseas and within two months for goods exported to neighboring countries or by air to any destination and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in turn surrender these proceeds to the Bank of Uganda within three business days, failure of which entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 percent above the LIBOR or prime rate in the country where the funds are held. Coffee and cotton are subject to export du ty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank within 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 30,000 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individual exchange control approval, and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a family unit from their declared assets. Amoun ts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is trans- ferred after a period of five years; the accrued interest is also released but not remitted. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrow- ing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals. Foreign inves tment is permitted in Uganda with or without gov- ernment participation. Certain industries, such as public utilities, transportation, telecommunications, shipping, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly re- served for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufac ture, the dairy indus try, and tourism, the Government may pre- empt a certain percentage of the ownership but does accept private investment from both domestic and foreign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without spe- cific exchange control approval. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in Uganda that is controlled, directly or ind irec t ly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Paymen ts by the private nonbank sector for all other capital transfers and all invisible paymen ts not specified above are freely permitted up to an aggregate max imum allowance of US$500 a person a year, provided there is adequate evidence to support the application. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but in practice does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewe lry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the form of ingots, bars, or sheets; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewe l ry, and gold coin are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 25. Foreign exchange suspended. transactions were February 19. Foreign exchange transactions were re -^ sumed. The foreign exchange auction was formally aban- doned and replaced by an administered system of allo- cating foreign exchange based on an official rate of U Sh 1,470 per US$1. Allocation of foreign exchange was to be on a sectoral priority basis. Priority imports included agricultural inpu ts and implements, spare parts, petroleum and intermediate products, raw materials, pharmaceuti- cals, and a limited number of essential consumer items. Service paymen ts and capital movements were to be restricted mainly to official transactions, including pay- ments on government and government guaranteed exter- nal debt. May 28. With immediate effec t, a dual exchange market system comprising two fixed rates was introduced. The "priority," or less depreciated rate, of U Sh 1,400 per US$1, applied to most import transactions, including basic consumer goods, agricultural imports, and raw materials for key indus tr ies, as well as the payment of external debt service obligations and contributions to international organizations. It also applied to the exports... of traditional commodity items that constitute the bulk of Uganda's exports. The "market," or more depreciated rate, of U Sh 5,000 per US$1, applied only to foreign exchange purchases to finance the importation of other goods and services, mainly nonbasic consumer items, and to exports of services and nontraditional commodities. __ August 23. The dual exchange market system intro- duced in May 1986 was abolished and was replaced with a fixed exchange rate system with the exchange rate fixed at U Sh 1,400 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments May 28. The Uganda Advisory Board of Trade, a semiautonomous agency previously responsible for the issue of import licenses, was abolished and its func t ions centralized w i th in the Ministry of Commerce; the licensing arrangemen ts, however, remained in force. August 23. It was announced that all fu tu re cash imports would be permitted only on a c. & f. basis. Imports must now use Ugandan insurance companies under the auspices of the Ugandan Insurance Corporation. 506 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U. A .E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate; since November 1980, the U .A .E. dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Central Bank publishes buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar only. On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one mon th, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three- month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requ iremen ts for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 'The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs du ty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) are not subject to any customs du ty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an export license, to any destination, other than South Africa and Israel. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. The proceeds from exports need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Not less than 70 percent of corporate shares of financial institutions (excluding banks) must be held by nationals or organizations of the United Arab Emirates; the chair- man and two thirds of the board of directors must also be nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohib- ited from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8, 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with or lending to nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Central Bank swap facilities are not made available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for com- mercial purposes. 0 Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes is under- taken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. Changes During 1986 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system, 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. Whether the rate is rising or falling, intervention by the authorities is limited to smoothing operations to moderate excessive fluctuations and pre- serve orderly markets. On December 31, 1986 the closing selling and buying rates for the U.S. dollar in the London foreign exchange market as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.4832 and US$1.4842, respectively, per £ 1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresi- dents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls have been abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Depart- ment of Trade and Indus try, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;1 the CEFTA Area;2 the Community Area;3 the Dollar Area;4 the Far Eastern and Western Area;5 the Mediterranean Area;6 the •The ACP Area comprises Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burk ina Faso, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Ma- lawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mau r i t ius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Solomon Islands, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanua tu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 2The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (West), Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 3The Commun i ty Area comprises all EC member states. 4The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, the Philippines, the United States, and Venezuela. 5The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 6The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyp rus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Tu rkey, and Yugoslavia. OCT Area;7 the State Trading Area;8 the Residual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods,10 most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1986: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;11 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) from the German Democratic Republic, Berlin (East), and the U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (5) from the State Trading Area only, seven commodities or groups of commodities; and (6) from the Republic of South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Indi- vidual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EC regulations. 7The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eus ta t ius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, Anguilla, and West Indies Associated States. 8The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and Berlin (East), Hungary, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. ^he Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan (see Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65), Thailand, Uruguay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Medi- terranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 10The restrictions of textiles do not apply to countries in the Commun i ty Area, other than Portugal and Spain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, or the Un i ted States. HThe skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale products, and a number of other wildlife products, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported w i thout an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported only if consignments are certified that bu f fer stock paymen ts required under the international cocoa agreement of 1980 have been made. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling bank notes may be dispatched to nonresidents against payment in sterling or in any foreign currency. For any type of travel, U .K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accommo- dation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign currency notes. Resi- dents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.12 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credit Guar- antee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars when the contract is for the equivalent of at least £ 10 million may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the submission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other bank notes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial ownership of residents of other countries. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) are remittable at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other country may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United Kingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents.13 However, cases involving the takeover of existing U .K. companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry may be subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable 12Exports of certain commodities are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and international agreements. 13Except that there is a vo lun tary ban on new direct inve s tment in the Republic of South Africa by residents, wh ich was announced on Octo- ber 30, 1986. 510 foreign takeovers of important manufacturing undertak- ings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dispatched abroad freely. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank 's eligible liabilities that are subject to a !/2 of 1 percent noninterest-bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coin are not subject to control in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or after 1961 and originating in the Republic of South Africa. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £ 8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Indus t ry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The U .K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The following measures became effective: (1) in the context of regulations of the European Com- mun i t ies, Commun i ty surveillance licensing was intro- duced with respect to certain yarns of synthetic textile fibers and stockings and socks originating in Turkey, and Community surveillance licensing was discontinued with respect to handkerchiefs originating in Portugal; (2) im- ports of tableware and other articles of a kind commonly used for domestic or toilet purposes and stoneware from the Republic of Korea were liberalized; (3) area classifi- cation of Portugal and Spain was amended, whereby Spain was added to "CEFTA Area" and deleted from "Mediterranean Area," and Portugal and Spain were added to "Community Area;" (4) imports of matches and certain a lum inum goods from Romania were liberalized; (5) the importation into Northern Ireland of certain air guns, air rifles and air pistols, and ammunition originating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in all third countries was restricted; and (6) surveillance licensing of certain iron and steel goods originating in Brazil and Spain was discontinued. February 15. Import quotas were imposed on certain fats of bovine cattle, sheep, or goats; and on certain fertilizers and certain bleached paper and paperboard, originating in the United States. February 21. An import quota was imposed on certain iron and steel goods originating in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. March 1. Imports of styrene, certain polyethylene products, sporting and target shooting guns, rifles and carbines, gymnas ium and athletics equ ipmen t, and snow skis originating in the United States were liberalized. May 24. A ban was imposed on imports of gold coins originating in the Republic of South Africa and consigned directly to the United Kingdom from the Republic of South Africa (see also, entry for November 4). June 10. Double-control surveillance licensing was introduced for goods originating in Turkey of MFA categories 4, 5, 6, 8, 13, 20, 26, and 83 (previously subject to quota restriction) and of MFA categories 7, 12, and 39 (previously subject to Commun i ty surveillance licensing). At the same time, Commun i ty surveillance licensing was introduced on track suits (category 73) originating in Turkey. June 20. Imports of certain iron and steel rails origi- nating in Czechoslovakia were liberalized. July 15. The United Kingdom and the U .S .S .R. signed a five-year trade agreement called the U.K.-U.S.S.R. Economic and Industrial Cooperation Programme, 1986- 1990. The Agreement did not state precise volumes of trade but updated and identified the interests of the two countries in each other's market and products. The UNITED KINGDOM Agreement is to be extended automatically in 1990, unless revised. September 20. Import quota measures taken against the United States on February 15 were liberalized. September 26. In tra-Commun i ty surveillance licensing was introduced with respect to certain iron and steel goods originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. In tra-Commun i ty surveillance li- censing was lifted with respect to certain other iron and steel goods originating in Czechoslovakia. September 27. A ban was imposed on imports of certain iron and steel goods originating in the Republic of South Africa. November 4. The ban on imports of gold coins origi- nating in the Republic of South Africa was amended to cover only gold coins minted in or after 1961, making all such coins subject to the ban, whe ther or not consigned to the United Kingdom directly from the Republic of South Africa, unless in free circulation w i th in the EC. December 16. In tra-Commun i ty surveillance licensing was introduced with respect to color television receivers originating in Taiwan.! December 20. Quotas were imposed on imports on urea originating in Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Berlin (East), Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. Capital May 15. The United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China signed a mutual investment promotion and protection agreement. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U .S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the au- thorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Un i ted States formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10, 1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers licensing programs invo lv ing direct or indirect financial or com- mercial transactions with Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea,1 the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam ,1 the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, or their nationals, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, and the Libyan Sanctions Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries, as well as accounts of Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regu la t ions .2 The Department of the Treasury also regulates certain trade and transportation-related activities invo lv ing Nicaragua un- der the Nicaragua Trade Control Regulations and adm in- isters restrictions on certain trade and inves tment activ- ities involving the Republic of South Africa under the South African Transactions Regulations pursuant to the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quo tas; such quotas, however, are frequen t ly established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Imp lemen ta t ion of Textile Agreemen ts, chaired by the Department of Commerce, w i th represen- tatives from other agencies, decides when to request consultation w i th countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the Mu l t if iber Arrangement and bilateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Depar tment of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas on sugar and products containing sugar are 'As cited in the re levant na t ional regu la t ions. Res tr ic t ions on p aym en ts to the Islamic Repub l ic of I ran, except for paymen ts from Iranian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981, were revoked on J anu a ry 19,1981, pu r su ant to Execu t ive Orders and regu la t ions issued the reunde r. I ran ian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981 have, w i th l im i ted excep t ion s, been transferred to the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran or to va r ious escrow accoun ts as set for th in the J a n u a ry 19, 1981 agreements be tween the U n i t ed States and the Is lam ic R epub l ic of I ran. 512 set on an annual basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. For items subject to export control —other than mun i t ions items —the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible au thor i ty. There are no restrictions on foreign paymen ts, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations for security reasons on transactions invo lv ing the au- thorities or nationals of Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; those on trade and related transactions invo lv ing Nicaragua; those on loans and inves tmen ts invo lv ing the Republic of South Africa; and, to a very limited ex tent (see footnote 2), those affecting certain assets of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities. However, certain paymen ts to Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jama- hiriya related to authorized travel are permitted, as are certain paymen ts in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited remittances to the remitter's close relatives in Cuba and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, the So- cialist Republic of V ie tnam, and Nicaragua are prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically autho- rized. In addition, importation is prohibited from South Africa of gold coins, u ran ium in the form of ore or oxide, coal, textiles, iron and steel, military articles, agricultural products, food, sugar, and any products from parastatal organizations of South Africa pu rsuant to the Compre- hens ive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. The same Act pro- hibits the importation of gold coins from the U .S .S .R. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and produc ts, most dairy produc ts, and peanu ts; (2) sugar and certain sugar products; and (3) certain specialty steel products. Moreover, quotas may be im- posed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. Among the quan t i ta t ive import quotas, all, except those for peanu ts, certain cotton produc ts, bu t te r, oil, and certain sugar products, are on a country-of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The Un i ted States is a party to the GATT Mu l t i f iber Arrangement (MFA) and to 38 bilateral textile agreements negotiated in accordance w i th the A r rangemen t 's provi- sions. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the Un i ted States and provide for orderly expansion of trade w i thout disrupting U .S. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution markets for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic indus try performance to de term ine if market disruption exists or is threatened. When necessary, con- sultations are requested to establish export limitations. Imports of a number of manufactured products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed indus- tries, including those of motorcycles (the temporary relief for which is expected to end in 1987, a year before it is to expire), and specialty steel. A Free Trade Area Agree- ment is in force with Israel. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) scheme for developing countries has been in operation in the United States since Janua ry 1976 and is scheduled to continue through July 4, 1993. Under a procedure referred to as "product graduation," eligibility can be w i thdrawn on a product-by-product basis from countries considered to be no longer in need of the tariff preference. Cumu la t ive treatment under the GSP scheme is ex tended to members of the Andean Group, of the ASEAN and of CAR ICOM; cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jo in t ly to the requ irement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product should originate in the beneficiary coun try. Exempted from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least-developed" beneficiaries; currently, 32 countries are thus designated.3 During the ten years ended in December 1985, du ty-free imports by the Un i ted States under the scheme increased from US$3.2 billion to US$13.3 billion. Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Ac t, 21 countries and entities4 have been designated to receive preferential tariff treat- ment on specified imports for the period through Septem- ber 30, 1995. Exports and Export Proceeds Mun i t ions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers control directly on exports of crime control and detection equip- men t, as well as ins t rumen ts and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the Nor th Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce adm in- isters controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U .S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department admin- isters controls on exports to certain areas of goods of 3The designated coun tr ies are: Bangladesh, Ben in, B h u t a n, Botswana, Bu rk ina Faso, Bu rund i, Cape Ve rde, Cen tral A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, Comoros, D j ibou t i, Equatorial Gu inea, The Gambia, Gu inea, Gu inea- B issau, Ha i t i, Lesotho, Ma law i, Ma ld ive s, Ma l i, Nepa l, N ige r, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Repub l ic. 4An t igua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Be l ize, Br i t ish V irg in Is lands, Costa Rica, Dom in ica, Dom in ican Repub l ic, El Sa lvador, Gren- ada, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Honduras, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, Ne the r lands An t i l le s, Panama, St. K i t ts and Nev i s, St. Luc ia, St. V incent and the G renad ines, and Trinidad and Tobago. UNITED STATES foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U .S. nationals.) All exports to Cuba, the People's Republic of Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam, and Nicaragua (with the exception of general publications, certain publicly available tech- nical data and educational materials, personal baggage, and similar items) are prohibited unless individually li- censed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. Exports of crude oil and petroleum products and materials and technology con- nected w i th nuclear power to the Republic of South Africa are also prohibited, as well as exports of computer technology and items on the U.S. mun i t ions list to specified South African agencies. Exports to all other coun tr ies, except Canada, of designated strategic mate- rials and equ ipment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than Afghan is tan, member coun tr ies of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet- nam, and Nicaragua, distribution licenses may be obtained to cover multiple sh ipmen ts. The licensing requirements applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, which was amended in 1985, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although effor ts are made to m in im ize the use of such authority. For agricultural commodities, such as whea t, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean produc ts, cotton, and several o thers, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system that is designed to improve market information and to allow for more orderly exporting and, the reby, lessen substantially the need for government in te rven t ion. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts and transfers abroad may be made free ly, except for paymen ts to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampu- chea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam, and certain paymen ts relating to Nicaragua and the Republic of South Africa.5 U.S. resi- dents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in the Socialist Republic of V ie tnam. In addition, 5Certain paymen ts and t rans fe rs to the Government of the Islamic Repub l ic of I ran, its in s t rumen ta l i t ie s, and controlled en t i t ies invo lv ing stand-by le t ters of c red i t, performance bonds, and s im i lar obligations with the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran con trac ted prior to Janua ry 19, 1981 are subject to res tr ic t ions. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam are generally prohibited, as are certain types of paymen ts from the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Certain transactions in connection with authorized travel in these countries are permitted. Receipt of funds from Nicaragua is pro- hibited to the extent that they relate to unauthorized transactions. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer- form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital paymen ts by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Inves tmen ts involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving Cuba, the People's Re- public of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and, to a lesser ex ten t, Nicaragua (see footnote 5 concerning the Islamic Republic of Iran). New investments by U .S. nationals in the Republic of South Africa are prohibited, subject to limited exceptions. In addition, there are certain reporting re- quirements for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than US$5,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U .S. farmland by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations of which 5 percent or more is foreign-owned must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose varying restrictions on pur- chases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encouraging placement of de- posits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to limitations of a quantitative nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and not maintain imprudent positions. U .S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, are subject to reserve require- ments by the Federal Reserve system. Loans and exten- sion of credit to or acceptance of deposits from the South African Government or its entities are prohibited; trade credits are exempted. 514 Beginning December 3,1981, U .S. chartered depository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,6 and U .S. branches and agencies of foreign banks may establish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution estab- lishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements of Regulation D and from interest rate limitations of Regulation Q. For nonbank foreign resi- dents, the m in imum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocurrency requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the en t i ty's foreign offices. A number of individual states (but not the Federal Govern- ment) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance cov- erage and assessments. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) in- volving Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and Nicaragua. Imports of South African Krugerrand and gold coins minted in the U.S.S.R. are prohibited under the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, ref iners, and pro- cessors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U .S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry, except gold jew- elry fashioned from U.S.S.R. or South African gold coins, are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. 6These are defined as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Quotas on imports of semifinished steel from the European Communities (EC) became effec t ive. The new quotas restricted imports from the EC to 600,000 tons a year. January 6. The USITC made the determination that imports of low-fuming brazing copper wire and rod from South Africa were causing material in jury to domestic indus t ry, and antidumping duties were assessed. January 6. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that certain iron construction castings from Canada were being sold in the United States at less than fair value, with a weighted average dump ing margin at 10.2 percent. January 7. The President announced a set of restrictions concerning transactions involving the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. These included a ban on imports of goods and services of Libyan origin, with the exception of publications and material imported for news publica- tions or broadcast dissemination. January 21. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of fuel ethanol from Brazil were receiving subsidies. However, the USITC reached a negative in jury determination, and no antidumping duties were assessed. The amount of net subsidy was found to be 2.6 percent. February 5. The President suspended most-favored- nation tariff treatment for Afghan is tan. February 19. The USITC found that imports of con- struction castings from Canada were causing material injury to domestic producers. Consequently, antidumping duties were assessed. February 27. The Department of Commerce made a preliminary determination that imports of porcelain-on- steel cookware from Mexico were being subsidized at a net rate of 2.29 percent. March 3. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of carbon steel wire rod from New Zealand were subsidized. The net subsidy rate was determined to be 25.69 percent. March 5. The Department of Commerce issued the final affirmative ruling concerning subsidies on imports of pistachios from the Islamic Republic of Iran and made a preliminary determination of sales at less than fair value. Countervailing duties were assessed. March 14. The Department of Commerce affirmed its determination that imports of groundfish from Canada were receiving a net subsidy at the rate of 5.82 percent. Countervailing duties were assessed. March 18. The USITC recommended (under Section 201, escape clause) a 35 percent increase in tariffs on imports of red cedar shakes and shingles from Canada. This followed an earlier ruling that these imports were seriously hurting domestic indus t ry. March 24. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of malleable iron pipe fittings from Brazil, Korea, and Taiwant were being sold UNITED STATES at less than fair market value. The weighted average dumping margin was found to be 5.64 percent for imports from Brazil, 12.48 percent for imports from Korea and 44.87 percent for imports from Taiwan.t March 31. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of offshore platform jackets and piles from Korea were receiving subsidies. It also found that imports of these products from Japan and Korea were being sold in the United States at less than fair value. Average dumping margins were found to vary between 8.88 and 9.19 percent for imports from Japan. The weighted average dumping margin was found to be 8.92 percent for imports from Japan and 17.34 percent for imports from Korea. April 1. The Office of the U .S. Trade Representative (USTR) announced the list of goods eligible for duty-free en try under the Generalized System of Preference (GSP) scheme of the U.S. Government during the 12-month period beginning July 1, 1986. April 2. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of rice from Thailand were being subsidized at a rate of 0.82 percent. Counter- vailing duties were assessed. April 9. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of standard pipe and tube and line pipe from Turkey were being sold at less than fair value. April 16. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of oil country tubular goods from Canada were being subsidized and sold at less than fair value. April 21. The USITC determined that imports of steel wire nails from China were causing, or threatened to cause, material injury to domestic indus t ry. Conse- quen t ly, antidumping duties were assessed. April 23. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of 64K random access memory components from Japan were being sold at less than fair value. Dumping margins were found to range between 11.87 percent and 35.34 percent. April 29. The USITC determined that imports of fresh whole groundfish from Canada were causing material in jury to domestic indus try. Consequently, antidumping duties were assessed. May 5. The USITC found that imports of malleable iron pipe fittings from Brazil, Korea, and Taiwant were causing material in jury to domestic indus try. Conse- quen t ly, antidumping duties were assessed. May 19. The Department of Commerce announced the final determination that imports of pistachios from the Islamic Republic of Iran were being sold at less than fair value. It found weighted average dumping margins of 241.14 percent. May 27. The USITC found that imports of 64K dynamic random access memory components from Japan were causing material in jury to domestic indus try. Conse- quen t ly, antidumping duties were assessed. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES June 3. The USITC made an a f f i rma t ive determination that imports of oil coun try tubu lar goods from Canada were being subsidized and were causing material in ju ry to domestic indu s t ry. As a resu l t, an t idump ing and coun- tervailing duties were assessed. Also, an t idump ing duties were assessed on imports of these products from Taiwan, t July 1. The manufac tur ing clause of the copyright law expired and was not renewed. The clause, which has been in effect since the beginning of the cen tu ry, prohib- ited imports of books by U .S. nationals printed outside North America. July 2. The USITC determined that domestic indu s t ry was threatened with material in ju ry because of dumped imports of pistachios from the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran. Consequently, an t idump ing du t ies were assessed. July 7. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of pe tro leum wax candles from China were being sold at less than fair value, with a weighted average dump ing margin of 54.21 percent. July 7. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of standard pipe and tube from China were being sold at less than fair va lue, w i th a weighted average dump ing margin of 30 percent. July 16. The USITC made a preliminary determination that imports of porcelain-on-steel cookware from Spain were causing material in ju ry to domestic indus t ry. July 31. The United States and Japan reached an agreement covering trade in semiconductors. According to the agreement, Japan was to establish a system of floor prices to avoid sales of chips in the Un i ted States and third country markets at less than fair value as well as to take measures to improve the access of U .S .-made chips to the Japanese market. August 11. The Department of Commerce made the final de term ina t ion that imports of carbon steel wire from Zimbabwe were being subsidized. The net subsidy was found to be 47.33 percent. August 25. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of steel wire from New Zealand were being subsidized. The average rate of subsidy was found to be 6.84 percent. Consequen t ly, countervailing du t ies were assessed. September 7. In a settlement of a dispute between the United States and the EC invo lv ing steel and citrus f ru i t, the quotas on imports of sem if in ished steel from the EC were increased. September 11. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of pipes and tubes from the Philippines and Singapore were being sold at less than fair value. The weighted average dump ing margins were found to range between 6.76 percent and 12.60 percent for imports from Singapore and 10.20 percent for imports from the Philippines. October 2. The Comprehens ive Anti-Apartheid Act became effec t ive, imposing prohibitions on the following categories of imports from South Africa: gold coins, military articles, u ran ium, coal, textiles, iron and steel, agricultural produc ts, food, and sugar; and any products from parastatal organizations in South Africa. The Act also prohibits imports of gold coins from the U .S .S .R. It fu r ther prohibits any U .S. government procurement of goods or services from parastatal organizations in South Africa. October 20. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of certain carbon steel pipe fittings from Brazil and Taiwant were being sold at less than fair value. October 21. The President signed the budget reconcil- iation bill for FY 1987, which included a proposal to impose a customs user fee. The fee was to be set at 0.22 percent in FY 1987 and 0.17 in FY 1988 and FY 1989, with exceptions to be granted for imports from certain countries and territories. October 23. The USITC found that imports of certain types of steel pipes from Singapore were threatening to cause material in jury to domestic indus t ry. Consequen t ly, an t idump ing duties were assessed. November 3. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of brass sheet and strips from Brazil and the Korea were being sold at less than fair prices. The average weighted dumping margins were found to be 8.14 percent for imports from Korea and 40.62 percent for imports from Brazil. The Department also found that imports from Brazil were being subsidized. November 5. The USITC found that imports of por- celain-on-steel cookware from Mexico, China, and Tai- want were causing material in ju ry to domestic indus try. Consequen t ly, antidumping duties were assessed. November 10. The Un i ted States and Japan signed an agreement limiting imports of Japanese machine tools to the Un i ted States. The vo lun ta ry export restraint arrange- ment limited Japan's share of the U .S. market to the 1981 level and will be effective for five years. November 19. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of stainless steel cook- ingware from Korea and Taiwant were being subsidized and sold at less than fair value. November 21. The Depar tment of Commerce made the final determination that imports of hand cranks for jalousie w indows from El Salvador were being subsidized and sold at less than fair value. The net subsidy rate was found to be 4.76 percent, and the weighted average dump ing margin, 40.20 percent. November 24. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that imports of mirrors in stock sheet and lehr-end sizes from the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Portugal, and the United Kingdom were being sold at less than fair value. December 3. The Department of Commerce made the final determination that brass sheet and strips from Canada were being sold at less than fair value. December 8. The USITC found that imports of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Brazil and Taiwant were tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. t See Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution causing material in jury to domestic indus t ry. Conse- quen t ly, an t idump ing duties were assessed. December 9. The office of the U .S. Trade Represent- ative announced that Taiwant had agreed to vo lun ta ry limits on its exports of machine tools to the Un i ted States. December 15. The administration announced that the quotas for sugar imports for 1987 would be significantly reduced from those prevailing in 1986. Exports and Export Proceeds January 7. As part of the economic sanctions against the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, exports of goods, services, and technology to that country were banned. March 3. The USDA announced that a new export incentive program for dairy products was to be under taken by the Commodity Credit Corporation. April 23. The Department of Commerce issued the final ruling imp lemen t ing changes in the Export Adm in is t ra t ion Act. According to the revised law, agreements between nongovernmental U .S. en t i t ies and governmental agencies of controlled countries concerning exports of technical data of U.S. origin must be reported to the Department of Commerce. June 4. The Department of Commerce issued a final rule allowing exports of crude oil from A laska's Cook Inlet. According to the new rule, exporters must obtain a license from the Department of Commerce. June 5. The Department of Commerce published rules subjecting exports of any helicopters to Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen, and the Syrian Arab Republic to control. In addition, the Department of Commerce published a rule imposing controls on exports of a number of chemicals to the Syrian Arab Republic. July 14. The Department of Commerce removed vali- dated licensing requ iremen ts on exports of automatic wafering saws (used to cut silicon material for computer chips) to countries other than Afghan is tan, member coun- tries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the People's Republic of Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Socialist People's tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 65. UNITED STATES Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, the Socialist Republic of Viet- nam, and Nicaragua. August 11. The Department of Commerce issued new export controls regulations reflecting Spain's membership in the Coordinating Committee of the United States and certain allied countries on exports to other countries. These involved reducing certain restrictions on exports to Spain. October 2. The Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act prohibited exports from the United States to South Africa of crude oil and petroleum products and any items, materials, or technology connected with nuclear power. In add i t ion, the Act prohibited U .S. exports to South Africa of compu ters, computer software or technology, as well as items on the U .S. munitions list to certain official agencies. October 7. The Export-Import Bank of the United States introduced a policy which enabled exporters to obtain export credit insurance on individual short-term transactions. October 16. The President signed a six-year extension to the charter of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The renewed charter also authorized a US$300 million allocation to be targeted at countries which block progress in OECD negotiations to restrict the use of tied aid credits for commercial purposes. Capital October 2. The Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986 prohibited any loans by U.S. nationals to the Government of South Africa and new inves tmen ts by U.S. nationals in South Africa except in companies owned by black South Africans. Normal short-term trade fi- nancing was not prohibited. The Act terminated the tax treaty and protocol between the United States and South Africa. Also, the Act prohibited U .S. depository insti- tu t ions from accepting deposits f rom the South African Government or any governmental agency, except ac- counts authorized for diplomatic or consular use. Gold October 2. The importation of gold coins m in ted in the U .S .S .R. was prohibited under the Comprehensive Anti- Apartheid Act of 1986. The Act also extended the existing prohibition on imports of South African Krugerrand to include all gold coins minted in South Africa or offered for sale by the South African Governmen t. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Uruguay follows a floating exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Uruguayan new peso is determined by market forces, although the Central Bank reserves the right in principle to intervene for the purpose of preventing disorderly conditions in the exchange mar- ket. Buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1986 were NUr$180 and NUr$181, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. A tax' of l!/2 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange in both the spot and forward exchange markets, if a transaction is settled in Uruguayan new pesos; the tax rate is 0.3 percent for sales of foreign exchange through interbank operations. Export proceeds are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, commercial banks, and banking and exchange houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author- ized banks, banking houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); these countries are Ar- gentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. All settle- ments are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are within a range of 10-50 percent and 518 are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agricultural inpu ts, imports by the public sector, imports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for certain priority industries, and imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between zero percent and 15 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c.i.f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to the IMADUNI and the TMB. Most imports are subject to a 4 percent consular charge calculated on the f .o .b. value. Import surcharges, IMADUN I, and TMB are calculated either on an officially assesed price (precio de referenda), on a minimum export price, or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sold to the banks not later than 36 mon ths after the expiration date of shipping documents. Exporters are eligible for rebates in respect of indirect taxes paid during the production process; these rebates replaced the system of tax credit certificates with effect from January 1, 1983. From time to time, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considerations), certain exports are forbidden or subjected to special conditions. Traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semiscoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and livestock on the hoof (except that of pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Fish exports are eligible for tax credit certificates amounting to 3 percent, 6 percent, or 11 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports, which can be used by the exporter to pay taxes, social security contributions, or be sold to a third party. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments February 25. Imports of ships and related equipment, spare parts, fue ls, and other material needed for their use were granted exemption from the import surcharge. April 23. Certain products imported into Rivera and Chuy and destined for sale to tourists in these cities were exempted from import surcharges. May 7. A trade agreement with Mexico was signed, which included a number of mutual trade concessions for specific products. May 21. Decree 273/86 widened the list of products that can be imported under the trade arrangement with Argentina. August 20. The temporary increase of 5 percentage points in the import surcharge that had been introduced in June 1985 was suspended, and the basic surcharge URUGUAY rates were lowered by a fur ther 5 percentage points. The maximum surcharge rate was reduced correspondingly from 60 percent to 50 percent. August 21. All reference prices, with the exception of those specified in Decree 141/84 of April 10, 1984, were reduced by 10 percent. Most remaining reference prices were also reduced, by varying amounts, taking into account price developments on international markets. October 29. The fourth additional protocol with Brazil in the context of LAI A was ratified; at the same time, modifications to the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between Uruguay and Brazil were ratified. Exports and Export Proceeds February 26. Exports of salted, pickled, and wet-blue hides were forbidden for a period of 90 days. (The prohibition was subsequently extended indefinitely.) April 2. The list of export products eligible for rebates in respect of indirect taxes paid during the production process was modified to include, inter alia, pork and mutton meat, barley, soja, and sunflower seeds. April 8. A new Sanitary Inspection Fund was created by Law 15.809, to be financed by, inter alia, a 1 percent tax on the f.o.b. value of various types of meat exports. June 13. Exports of unsk inned beef were exempted from the export tax. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Va tu, pegged to the SDR at a rate of VT 142 = SDR 1. The Central Bank of Vanuatu does not buy or sell foreign exchange. As a transitional arrangement, the Banque Indosuez Vanua tu, which is at present the Government's main depository, quotes daily the rates of the vatu against 11 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values in terms of the SDR. In its purchases and sales of vatu, the Banque Indosuez Vanuatu applies a margin of up to 1 percent over the international commercial buying and selling rates for the respective currencies in terms of the SDR. The overall size of the spread in the local market therefore reflects differences between buying and selling rates for foreign currencies in the international market and the Banque Indosuez Vanua tu's margin of 1 percent.2 On December 31, 1986 the fixing buying and selling rates for the vatu (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 114.89 per US$1 and VT 117.42 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of the following, all items may be freely imported: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammunitions, explosives, and dangerous drugs; certain plants, foods tuffs, and animals, which are also restricted and subject to author- ization. Importation of cement, canned soft drinks, T- shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, frozen chickens, and chicken pieces are controlled, either by absolute prohi- bition or by import licensing restriction. Australian dollar, French franc, CFP franc, Fiji dollar, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollar, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollar, pound sterling, Singapore dollar, and U.S. dollar. 2With effect from February 2, 1987, the Central Bank buys and sells foreign exchange, and it quotes on a daily basis the rates of the va tu against Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and New Zealand dollars. The Central Bank deals w i th the commercial banks in Australian dollars, French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars only. Buying and selling rates are quoted on the basis of 0.375 percent on each side of a middle rate, but in practice transactions are conducted on a narrower spread. The Central Bank buys or sells foreign exchange only in transactions with the commercial banks for account of the Government or for its own operations. 520 Import duties are levied mainly on an ad valorem basis on import values (c .i .f .). Certain high revenue goods, however, are liable to specific rates of import duty levied on units of quantity (in particular, spirits, wine, beer, tobacco products, and hydrocarbon oils). Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are gen- erally liable to high du ty rates. A 5 percent service tax is payable on most imported goods based on the duty- inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specific end-use, particularly those imported for projects likely to aid national, social, or economic development, may be approved for du ty- free or duty- and tax-free importation by virtue of one of a number of statutory exemptions. Included in these are goods imported for sale to tourists, ships stores (including fue ls), goods imported for processing and re-exportation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from surrendered. invisibles need not be Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, and crustaceans3 are subject to authorization by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and exports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Centre. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f .o .b .); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal and timber. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement February 13. The Central Bank of Vanua tu adjusted the exchange rate of the vatu from VT 110 per SDR 1 to VT 122 per SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 9.8 percent. Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 23. The Central Bank of Vanuatu adjusted the exchange rate of the vatu from VT 122 per SDR 1 to VT 142 per SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 14.1 percent. VANUATU 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a four-tier exchange rate system under which three of the exchange rates are pegged to the U.S. dollar and the fourth is a fluctuating rate. In the first market the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to the public in eligible cases at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. The Central Bank may also sell foreign exchange at Bs 4.2925 = US$1 to banks, which may in turn sell to their customers at a rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Eligible payments at this preferential rate include those for (1) interest on private external debt authorized by the Differential Exchange System Office (RECADI) that fell due before December 31, 1983; (2) interest on external debt of public sector entities not directly serviced by the Central Government and that fell due before December 31, 1983; (3) amortization of authorized and registered private external debt (defined as net liability position) eligible for immediate payment;1 and (4) amortization of 10 percent of debts other than those eligible for immediate payment. In the second market the Central Bank buys foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 7.4925 = US$1 from the national petroleum and iron ore companies; it sells foreign exchange in the same market to the public at the rate of Bs 7.50 - US$1, and to banks at the rate of Bs 7.4925 = US$1 when the banks act as intermediaries, for the purpose of: (1) interest payments on external public and private sector debt registered at RECADI and falling due between December 31, 1983 and December 6, 1986; (2) external debt servicing of public enterprises; (3) amortization payments on registered private external debt other than those eligible for the Bs 4.30 per US$1 rate2 and interest on private registered debt falling due after December 6, 1986, provided the debtor subscribes to the optional exchange guarantee scheme introduced in De- cember 1986; (4) imports of "essential" food s tu f f s, med- icines, and inpu ts for agriculture, clothing, and paper products (including related freight and insurance); and (5) most outward remittances to students (until Decem- ber 31, 1987). In the third market the Central Bank buys foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1 from the 'Debts amoun t ing to US$500,000 or less, export credits w i th foreign official guarantee due prior to Ju ly 17, 1986, and debts in the fo rm of certificates of deposit or foreign cu r rency deposits. Debts of between US$500,000 and US$1,000,000, although eligible for immediate paymen t, are to be amortized at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1. Export credits w i th foreign official guarantee due after J u ly 17, 1986 can be amortized at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1, on their respective dates of ma tu r i ty, if the debtor subscribes to the optional foreign exchange guarantee scheme, except for the amounts falling due after Ju ly 17, 1986 but prior to the signing of a contract be tween the debtor and the Cen t ral Bank, in wh ich case amortization paymen ts can be made immed ia te ly at Bs 7.50 per US$1. 2That is, debts of be tween US$500,000 and US$1,000,000, export cred i ts with official guarantee falling due after Ju ly 17, 1986, and 90 percent of the debts covered p rev ious ly under the five-year reschedu l ing scheme and now eligible for the optional exchange rate guarantee scheme. 522 public and public sector entities other than the national petroleum and iron ore companies for the proceeds from exports of goods and services (excluding tour ism) and all public and registered private capital imports; it sells foreign exchange in the same market to the public at the rate of Bs 14.50 - US$1, and to banks at the rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1 when the banks act as intermediaries, for the purpose of: (1) all imports of goods and services (excluding tourism) other than those eligible for the Bs 7.50 per US$1 rate; (2) public sector current paymen ts abroad and paymen ts related to international commit- ments of the Government of Venezue la; (3) ou tward remittances to certain s tuden ts abroad dur ing 1986, and to all s tuden ts abroad after December 31, 1987; (4) interest and amortization paymen ts on external debt contracted or serviced by the Central Gove rnmen t; and (5) private debt amortization paymen ts on registered debts eligible for but not covered by the optional exchange rate guar- antee scheme. In the four th market transactions take place at a free ly fluctuating rate; th is rate applies to tour ism transac t ions and nonregistered private capital flows. The Central Bank may buy and sell foreign exchange at the fluctuating rate market, which operates through financial intermediaries. The banks and exchange houses in this market may establish different exchange rates according to the instru- ment being transacted, but the spread between buy ing and selling rates for the same ins trument may not exceed Bs 0.05 per US$1 in the case of banks and Bs 0.15 per US$1 in the case of exchange houses. On December 31, 1986 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar at the foreign exchange houses were Bs 22.63 = US$1 and Bs 22.77 = US$1, respectively. Buy ing and selling rates for other officially quoted currencies3 are based, for each marke t, on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in major markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the case of in te rbank transfers, domestic banks may charge only the cost of the transfer, inc lud ing commission and other charges by the foreign banks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Min- istry of Finance, with the advice of the Differential Exchange System Adv isory Committee. The committee is chaired by the Minister of Finance and inc ludes the Minister of Deve lopmen t, the M in is ter of Agriculture and Livestock, the Minister of the Central Coordination and 3Canadian do l la r, deu tsche ma rk, French f ranc, I ta l ian l i ra, Japanese yen, Portuguese escudo, pound s ter l ing, Span ish peseta, and Swiss f ranc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Planning Office, the President of the Central Bank of Venezuela, and the President of the Venezuelan Invest- ment Fund. The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank and RECADI, the head of which serves as secretary to the Differential Exchange System Advisory Committee. Import and export licenses are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the com- modity. Import quotas and prohibitions within the multiple exchange rate system are established by the Ministry of Finance. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) exercises supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trademarks, and over borrowing abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition, importation of certain goods is either prohibited or re- served for the Governmen t; these include iron and steel products, luxury food, apparel, and specified consumer durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restric- tions are maintained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except in the case of Andean Pact and LAI A member countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South Africa. Import licenses for some goods are issued on evidence that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity to be imported. Payments for imports by the national petroleum and iron ore companies and for imports of food, medicines, clothing, paper products, and agricultural inpu ts may be made at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1. All other goods that are not prohibited, reserved for the public sector, or subject to special regimes may be imported at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1 when authorized by RECADI, or at the free market rate. Imports into the free port of Margarita Island and those of a small list of products (alcoholic beverages) must be made at the free market rate. To have access to foreign exchange from the Central Bank for payment of imports, an importer must obtain an import license (Conformidad de Importation) from RECADI before the date of shipment of the goods; the license has a validity of 180 days, and may be renewed up to a period determined by RECADI in each specific case. At the time the above license is granted, the importer can obtain from the Central Bank foreign exchange for the equivalent of up to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value of the import plus the VENEZUELA cost of freight; for the remaining amount, the Central Bank issues a foreign exchange certificate (certificado de disponibilided de divisas) which carries an exchange rate guarantee. W i th in 30 days after customs clearance, the importer can apply at RECADI for authorization to obtain the foreign exchange to settle his import bill (autorizacion para la obtencion de divisas}. With this authorization (which is for 100 percent of the import value plus cost of freight), but not before 120 days after shipment of mer- chandise, the importer can obtain from the Central Bank the foreign exchange corresponding to the total amount authorized m inus the amount released earlier. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977), which has the power of prior authorization over all public sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to obtain letters of credit, exemption from import duties, and, if necessary, financing. By Decree No. 2664 (April 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te was appointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance with the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the minimum external tariff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tariffs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles Interest payments on registered private external debt falling due before December 31, 1983 are allowed to be made through the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Payments for the following categories of invisibles can be made at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1: (1) freight and insurance associated with imports made at this rate; (2) interest on the public and registered private external debt falling due after December 31, 1983, including interest on private or public entities' debts falling due after Decem- ber 6, 1986 if the debtor chooses to opt for the exchange rate guarantee scheme; (3) invisible payments by the national petroleum and iron ore companies; and (4) most outward remittances to students until December 31, 1987. The following invisible payments are effected at the rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1: (1) freight and insurance associated with imports made at this rate; (2) interest on the external debt of the Central Government or serviced by the Central Government; (3) other public sector current payments abroad; (4) outward remittances to some students until end-1987, and to all students thereafter; and (5) interest payments on registered private debts not covered by the exchange rate guarantee scheme. Other paymen ts for invisibles can be made through the free market, w i thout limit. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of commodities subject to price controls or deemed 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA to be in short supply domestically; for most commodities, such licenses are issued by the M in is try of Deve lopmen t, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the M in is try of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones and gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. All export earnings by companies dealing in gold must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the exchange rate it uses for its operations in the free market. In the case of private exporters, the authorization to export is contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to authorized banks w i th in 30 days of shipment in the case of cash exports, and w i th in 10 days of the due payment date in the case of exports on credit. Export earnings by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and the mining of iron ore must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 7.4925 = US$1. All other export earnings are to be surrendered at the rate of Bs 14.4925. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan imports from falling below specified minimum amounts, regardless of external prices. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Venezuela takes two basic forms: first, the Export Fi- nancing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law (September 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incen t ive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates w i th a two-year ma tu r i ty are granted to ex- porters of non trad i t ional products ( i .e ., exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic value added greater than 30 percent. These certificates can be held to ma tu r i ty and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. For the purpose of calculating the amount of the export subs idy, the domestic currency equivalent of the export value is calculated at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are to be surrendered at the rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1, except for those of the petroleum and iron ore companies (which must be sur- rendered a tB s 7 . 50 = US$1), and receipts from tourism, which are freely disposable. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin is prohibited. Capital The national and local governments, autonomous agen- cies, and state enterprises (other than petroleum and iron ore companies) are required to surrender to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1 all exchange 524 proceeds from foreign borrowing; principal repaymen ts on registered external debt of pub l ic sector entities are effected at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1, if covered by the exchange guarantee scheme, while principal repaymen ts on the external debt contracted or serviced by the Central Government and on debts of pub l ic en t i t ies not covered by that scheme are effected at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1. Foreign exchange receipts from capital transactions by the national petroleum and iron ore companies are required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 7.4925 = US$1, and paymen ts on capital transactions by these companies are effected at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1. All foreign exchange brought into Venezuela by the Venezuelan Inve s tment Fund is subject to convers ion at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1. Principal repaymen ts of registered external pr iva te debt can be effected at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1, if the debt amoun ts to US$500,000 or less and is in the form of export credits with foreign official guarantee and fell due prior to Ju ly 17, 1986, or in the form of certificates of deposit or foreign currency deposits. Registered debt amoun t ing to between US$500,000 and US$1,000,000 and export credits w i th foreign official guarantee due after Ju ly 17, 1986, but prior to the signing of a contract be tween the debtor and the Central Bank, can be amortized immed ia te ly at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1. For the remainder of private registered deb ts, amortization may take place on the respective dates of ma tur i ty at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 under an optional exchange rate guarantee scheme. Debt eligible for registration was defined as the net liabilities position in foreign exchange as of February 18, 1983 of (1) banking, financial, and insurance companies; and (2) nonfinancial enterprises of mixed or Venezuelan ownership in the areas of manufac tur ing (if the debt was contracted for the acquisition of capital goods for use within the country), transportation and public services (if the debt was for the acquisition of equipment), and construction (if the debt was incurred for public sector works or works guaranteed by the public sector for social housing projects). Under the exchange rate guarantee scheme, debtors can acquire guaranteed access to foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 for servicing their registered debts, over a period of eight years, by paying in advance a premium in bolivares. The prem ium is Bs 3 per US$1 of amortization paymen ts and an additional variable prem ium of up to Bs 1.50 for each US$1 of registered deb t, for interest paymen t s .4 Debtors have the option of subscribing to the exchange rate guarantee for part or all of the amortization paymen ts or for part or all of the interest paymen ts. Any debt-service payments of registered debt eligible for th is scheme, but not subscribed to it by the debtor, can be channe led through the controlled exchange market at the rate in effect at the time of paymen t. In both cases, regardless of whe ther the exchange guarantee is subscribed, amor- tization paymen ts are to be effected according to a 4The p r em ium va r ies accord ing to the fore ign in t e r e st rate u n d er wh i ch in te re st paymen ts are to be covered by the exchange rate guarantee (about Bs 0.17 per percentage po in t ), up to a m a x im um rate of 9 pe rcen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prescribed (backloaded) schedule, and the interest rate is to be limited to LIBOR plus 11A percentage points. Debtors may defer the payment of the premium over the eight- year period, in line with the schedule of debt service, by paying interest at a rate linked to domestic lending rates. All other inward and outward capital transfers by residents must be registered with SIEX in order to be eligible for the Bs 14.50 per US$1 exchange rate, although they are permitted w i thout restriction in the freely fluc- tuating exchange marke t. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or un i ts of foreign inves tment trusts or mu tual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for inves tment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct inves tment is gov- erned by Andean Pact regulations; a new foreign invest- ment code, however, has resulted in a substantial liber- alization of the system. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign invest- ment in the petroleum sector is prohibited; this restriction may, however, be lifted in exceptional cases. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 percent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Gov- ernment to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 percent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also regulates the activities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Interest earnings on loans extended by foreign financial institutions are exempt from income tax. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and inves tment purposes. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized importers and exchange houses and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themse lves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as are imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Imports and exports of nonmone tary gold (other than jewe lry for personal use) and of gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In addition, imports require licenses from the Central Bank and in certain cases also from the Minister of Development, while exports require authorization by the Central Bank. As an incentive measure, export earnings by companies dealing in gold are converted by the Central Bank at the free market rate. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Central Bank as an exporter of gold. Imports of gold are subject to du ty at varying rates. VENEZUELA Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement July 17. The exchange arrangement was modified, limiting access to the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1 to a narrow range of private sector debt service paymen ts and trans- ferring all other public and registered private debt service to the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 or, in the case of amortization of a large part of registered private deb t, to a scheme to be defined subsequen t ly. Thus, the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1 would henceforth apply only to amor- tization of debts of up to US$500,000 and debts guaranteed by foreign official agencies that had matured prior to July 17, 1986, and to paymen ts corresponding to the first two quarterly installments of the five-year repayment schedule that had been established for registered debts not eligible for immediate payment. December 6. The exchange arrangement was modified whereby the rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1 was applied to most imports previously effected at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 and to all trade transactions previously chan- neled through the free market (i .e ., about 70 percent of imports of goods and nonfactor services, exports other than oil and iron ore, public sector debt service paymen ts, private sector debt service paymen ts eligible for, but not subscribed to, the optional exchange guarantee scheme, and public and newly registered private capital flows). The exchange rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 continued to apply to imports of food, medicines, and inputs for agriculture, clothing, and paper products, to most remit- tances to s tuden ts abroad,5 to the trade and services of the oil and iron ore sectors, and for certain private sector registered debt service payments (amortization of export credits with official guarantee due after July 17, 1986 but prior to the signing of a contract between the debtor and the Central Bank, debts of between US$500,000 and US$1,000,000, and those of the remaining registered debts subscribed to the optional exchange guarantee scheme). The free exchange market was narrowed in coverage to include only tourism, the service of the nonregistered private debt contracted prior to December 8,1986, imports wh ich are not effected at the rates of Bs 7.50 or Bs 14.50 per US$1, respectively, and nonregistered private capital flows. Imports and Import Payments April 1. A ministerial commission was established with the task of formulating priorities for RECADI with respect to the allocation of preferential foreign exchange for imports. This commission, which subsequen t ly issued guidelines indicating sectoral priorities, consists of the Ministers of Finance, Development, Agriculture, and Planning, as well as the President of the Central Bank. May 26. Under Decree 1109, private importers were required to seek trade financing for a period of at least 120 days for 80 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports at the preferential exchange rate. At the same time, the 5U n t il December 31, 1987; thereaf ter, all rem i t tances to s tuden ts abroad w i ll be effec ted at the prevailing controlled exchange rate. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA former requirement to submit with the original import application a bank guarantee (fianza) to cover for any exchange rate differential that could arise if the goods imported were not eligible for the preferential exchange rate was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds July 17. The ratio of the import content of an exported product that is used to determine the proportion of foreign exchange required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 was raised from 50 percent to 80 percent of the difference between the export value and the domestic value added of the product. October 13. The number of different domestic value- added categories was reduced to four, with the average of each category (i.e., 40 percent for the category between 30 percent and 49 percent) applying to all products falling within that range. Capital July 17. Various modifications were made to the reg- ulations governing the amortization of private sector external debts. Under the new legislation, access to the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1 was limited to (1) the payment of debts guaranteed by foreign official agencies that had fallen due prior to July 17, 1986, of debts of less than US$500,000, and of debts in the form of certificates of deposit or letters of credit; and (2) the first two quarterly payments under the five-year rescheduling scheme estab- lished previously. Debts under (1) above falling due after July 17, 1986 would have access to the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 on the respective date of maturity. For the remaining registered debts, the new system provided for the issue of U .S. dollar-denominated bonds, which debt- ors could purchase from the Government Exchange Com- pensation Fund (FOCOCAM) at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1. These bonds, carrying a government guarantee, would have a maturity of no less than 15 years and an annual interest rate of no higher than 5 percent, and could be used to settle the private sector external obligations. September 1. The bond scheme introduced in July was withdrawn and FOCOCAM was eliminated. Principal pay- ments previously under that scheme remained suspended until the definition of a new scheme. September 29. The foreign investment code was amended, resulting in a substantial liberalization of the system. Modifications included the limitation of the transformation requirement to those firms that wish their exports to benefit from the tariff concessions established by the Andean Pact; the narrowing of sectors reserved for mixed or national ownership with the possibility of exemptions in exceptional cases; elimination of the reinvestment limits for existing inves tmen ts; and higher ceilings on dividend remittances. Moreover, approval of new investments— henceforth to be granted under a simplified ex post registration procedure —would be granted if any one of seven general criteria were met. In addition, the regula- tions governing technology transfer and technical assis- tance agreements were relaxed, and the exemptions from many of the limitations on foreign investment were broadened. December 6. An optional exchange rate guarantee scheme was announced for the servicing of private sector external debts previously registered under the five-year amortization schedule. Under this scheme, debtors can purchase guaranteed access to the exchange rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 for debt servicing, over a period of eight years, by paying a premium in bolivares. The premium, which can be paid in advance or deferred against payment of interest, was set at Bs 3 per US$1 for amortization payment, and at up to Bs 1.50 for each U.S. dollar of registered debt for interest payments, depending on the interest rate covered by the guarantee. Debtors have the option of subscribing to the exchange rate guarantee for part or all of the amortization or interest payments, respectively. Any debt service payments eli- gible for this scheme but not subscribed by the debtor will be effected at the controlled exchange rate in effect at the time of payment. Under the new regulations, the schedule of amortization payments will be backloaded, regardless of whether the exchange guarantee is sub- scribed; and the interest rate will be limited to LIBOR plus VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. On Novem- ber 1, 1986 the exchange rate of the dong in terms of the U.S. dollar for certain invisible transactions (primarily inward remittances and tourism) was adjusted from D 15 = US$1 to D 80 = US$1; for other transactions the rate of D 15 = US$1 was maintained. In the munic- ipality of Ho Chi Minh City, the corresponding rate is D 18 = US$1. A premium of 20 percent applies to inward remittances from the convertible area and to sales of convertible foreign exchange by tourists and by interna- tional organizations based in Viet Nam. In the munici- pality of Ho Chi Minh City, with effect from Decem- ber 9, 1986, additional premiums are granted to inward remittances and to sales of foreign exchange to tourists, bringing the applicable exchange rate to D 300 and D 250 per US$1, respectively. A preferential rate is applied to remittances from Vietnamese workers in the nonconvert- ible area. Enterprises purchase commodities received by resi- dents from foreign sources at prices reflecting domestic scarcities; the implicit exchange rate received on these sales is often more depreciated than the exchange rates described above. Import and export corporations, to which the D 15 per US$1 applies (D 18 per US$1 in Ho Chi Minh City), receive export premiums to cover their production and procurement cost, and pay special taxes on their import profits. For transactions with the convertible area, export premiums range from D 285 to D 435 per US$1, while taxes on import profits range from D 85 to D 285 per US$1. Similar premiums and taxes apply to transactions with the nonconvertible area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried out by specialized import-export corporations and some cooperatives or state enterprises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade; approval is given for imports in excess of the Plan on the merit of each application. Most official foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the foreign exchange transactions related to foreign technical assistance are monitored by the Aid Reception Commission, which is an agency directly at- tached to the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Coun- cil for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea are settled either through individual bilateral clearing accounts or under the CMEA transferable ruble settlement system (Czech- oslovakia, Cuba, Hungary, Mongolia, and U.S.S.R.). As a member of the CMEA, Viet Nam is entitled to use credits in transferable rubles from the International Bank of Economic Cooperation (IBEC) for up to 2 percent of the total volume of transactions specified in the annual trade agreements. Viet Nam also maintains a current account in convertible foreign exchange with the IB EC. Nontrade transactions with countries with which Viet Nam has bilateral paymen ts agreements1 take place at exchange rates specified in these agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresident accounts either in foreign currencies or in dong. Nonres- idents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import plan and an export plan are drawn up annually on the basis of the overall annual plan and quotas agreed upon under bilateral trade arrangements. Import and export activities are regulated by Decision No. 177, which was issued by the Council of Ministers on June 15, 1985. Trade transactions are carried out by 27 centrally managed import-export corporations and 22 local trading compa- nies, which produce exportable goods themselves or purchase them from producers. All payments for external trade transactions need the authorization of the State Bank and are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are normally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade, and any other receipts from foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Local export companies are permitted to export all available commodities, including the 25 items previously under the monopoly of the central export-import com- panies. Local corporations may import only commodities appearing on a list approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The procurement prices of exportable commodities and the domestic prices of imported goods are determined by local companies within ranges that are set by the State Pricing Commission for each group of commodities. In order to make better use of available marketing expertise and facilities, local trading companies in the provinces 1 At the end of 1986 Viet Nam had bilateral paymen ts agreements with seven countries that were not members of the Fund —Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, and the U.S.S.R. —and had bilateral paymen ts with three member countries of the Fund —the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mali, and the Syrian Arab Republic. During 1986 the bilateral payments agreement with Romania was terminated. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM are permitted to enter into joint venture arrangements with trading companies located in Ho Chi Minh City. Local trading companies in Ho Chi Minh City are under the overall supervision of a holding organization (!MEXCO) that coordinates all foreign trading activity and arranges for the appropriate financing. Export companies benefit from subsidies whenever their procurement costs are inadequately covered by the international prices of their exports. For centrally man- aged companies these subsidies are made available by the Export Support Fund, which is maintained by the Ministry of Finance. For locally managed companies these subsidies are paid out of profits made on imports, with the balance paid by the local government. Export permits are only granted when export subsidies do not exceed pre-established norms. An export bonus system has been in operation since 1980 to provide additional incentives for export produc- tion. Since June 15, 1985, the bonus for collective pro- duction units (cooperatives, cooperation teams, and pro- duction collectives) amounts to 4-5 percent of the value in domestic currency of their production of export goods if their plan quota is fulfilled. Central and local companies fulfilling their export quota are granted foreign exchange equivalent to 10 percent of their export earnings to import required inputs. Local trading companies are required to surrender 10- 30 percent of their export earnings (in convertible cur- rencies) that exceed the quota delivered to the State. However, many exemptions currently apply. For locali- ties that borrow in foreign currency, the surrender re- quirement is applied to their export earnings, net of their debt-servicing payments, for a period of three to five years; companies operating in the highland area are exempted from surrendering foreign exchange for a period of five years after they start producing exportable goods. Centrally managed companies operating in the tourist sectors are exempted from the surrender requirement, and central companies exporting coal, rubber, and marine products are allowed to retain 80-100 percent of their export earnings to purchase necessary inputs from the convertible area. Deposits arising from foreign currency receipts are held in special domestic currency accounts that can be used for the purchase of foreign currency for imports. The right to use these convertible dong deposits can be relinquished to other enterprises in exchange for the supply of inputs. State enterprises have two export plans. Primary export plans are formulated by the Government against deliveries of key inputs by the Government; secondary plans are set by the producing units without a sufficient supply of inputs (e.g., fuel) by the Government, thus leaving the task of procuring the needed inputs to the enterprises. For imports from the nonconvertible area, annual credits in foreign exchange are allocated to importers on the basis of actual production capacity; in principle, such credits cannot be carried over from one year to another. For imports from the convertible area, although a similar foreign exchange allocation system exists in principle, it 528 is not in use, as decisions to allocate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime Minister's Cabinet on a case-by- case basis, upon recommendations from the State Plan- ning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and specified Vice-Premiers. For trans- actions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived from their export earnings. Payments for Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual autho- rization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs individual authorization from the Prime Minister's Cabinet and, at present, is limited to official business for which all foreign exchange expenses are covered. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank within seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency need the special permission of the State Bank. The circulation of foreign currency in the domestic market is prohibited. Legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops, and tourists are required to make certain payments in convertible foreign currency. Capital The Foreign Investment Code provides for three forms of foreign investment: (1) investment in the production of goods intended solely for export; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state eco- nomic organization; and (3) production-sharing partner- ships for the exploitation of natural resources. The per- mitted share of foreign capital ranges from 30 percent to 49 percent for joint ventures and up to 100 percent for enterprises specializing in production for export. Other facilities available under the Investment Code include: (1) guarantee against nationalization for up to 15 years; (2) exemption from or reduction of income taxes; (3) possible exemption from or reduction of import duties on capital goods and raw materials for use in joint ventures and on temporary imports; (4) exemption from export duty for export enterprises; and (5) provisions for the establishment of free trade zones. Gold The State Bank alone has the authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Individuals are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement November 1. The exchange rate of the dong for selected invisible transactions was adjusted from D 15 = US$1 to D 80 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. The exchange rate of the tala is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$1 - US$0.4602 and WS$1 - US$0.4498, respec- tively. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. There is an exchange levy of 1 percent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 percent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of ex- change control rests with the Treasury and the Central Bank of Samoa. The daily administration of exchange controls is handled by the Central Bank of Samoa, which may delegate part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Central Bank of Samoa; the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank — the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain paymen ts up to any amoun t, and certain other payments up to specified amoun ts. Arrears are maintained w i th respect to external paymen t s. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which paymen ts to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No d is t inc t ion is made between the accounts of resi- den ts and nonres iden ts of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or hea l th. Other commodities may be imported from any source without restriction, w i th the exception of items subject to special approval on a case- by-case basis, namely motor vehicles, capital equ ipment in excess of dutiable values of WS$10,000, and a few items for which there are domestically manufactured subs t i tu tes .1 Import transactions other than for petroleum products and exceeding WS$5,000 are in each case re- quired to be made under letters of credit. Letters of credit for motor vehicle imports are subject to an advanced deposit requ irement of 100 percent. Advance deposits may be made at any commercial bank and interest is paid on these deposits.2 Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified l im i ts. Paymen ts in excess of these limits, as well as paymen ts for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Remittances for study abroad are normally authorized. Approval of the Central Bank of Samoa is required in respect of all transfers of local earnings from d iv idends, interest, and pensions of overseas residents. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$100 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$2,000 a person a year; in the case of travel for business purposes, the daily allowance is WS$200 w i th in a limit of WS$4,000 a trip. The Central Bank of Samoa grants supplementary allocations against evidence of genuine need. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equ iva lent to WS$500 a person. Travelers may not take out any domestic cur- rency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remit- tances of dividends at the source and interest paymen ts on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Cus- toms Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Marketing Di- vision on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Exports of cocoa are controlled by the Cocoa Board. An export levy of 7 percent is imposed on the f .o .b. value of cocoa.3 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in a reasonable time after sh ipmen t. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in performing services for nonresidents must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on re tu rn sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes, but may not bring in any domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank of Samoa. Inward capital rem i t tances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependen ts, either for special family 'Beer, cigarettes, t imbe r, veneer, ma tches, and cigarette lighters. 2The deposit requ i rement was abolished on March 5, 1987. 3The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$250 a year a person. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises In- centive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of income tax and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Central Bank of Samoa; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments March 19. Advance deposits (100 percent) for motor vehicle imports were permitted to be made at any com- mercial bank, and interest was paid on such deposits; previously, the deposits were required to be made at the Central Bank. (On March 5, 1987 the deposit requirement was abolished.) 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 8.99 = US$1. (An exchange rate of YRls 9 = US$1 is used for customs valuation purposes.) On December 31, 1986 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were YRls 8.98 and YRls 9.00, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen in its transactions, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. These central bank rates apply to limited public sector transactions.2 At the direction of the Central Bank, commercial banks' purchases of foreign exchange have taken place through a Purchasing Committee since February 1984. The Com- mittee is chaired by an official of the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), which is 51 percent owned by the Governmen t, with two represen- tatives from other commercial banks and one from the Central Bank. The Committee purchases foreign exchange from money changers (who acquire foreign exchange from workers' inward remittances) on behalf of all banks, thereby eliminating competition among banks, and ena- bling the Committee to exercise some countervailing power vis-a-vis the money changers, a few of whom are perceived to dominate the foreign exchange market. The exchange rate for these transactions, which constitutes the commercial bank rate, is negotiated according to market conditions. Central bank regulations require that any foreign exchange which a bank purchases directly from a customer must be turned over to the foreign exchange pool acquired by the Committee. At the end of 1986, the commercial bank rate fluctuated around YRls 12 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is established by the Central Bank in parallel with a commodity budget prepared by the appropriate ministries in consultation with the Central Bank. All imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Economy and Supply. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in foreign exchange; operations by private ex- change dealers are limited to the buy ing and selling of foreign currencies. 'Bahrain dinar, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan d inars, Kuwa i ti d ina rs, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guild- ers, pounds sterling, Qatar rials, Saudi Arabian r iya ls, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. 2These transac t ions are gove rnment loans and grants, official service receipts, m i l i tary impo r ts, debt service, and a small number of other invisible items. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared in conjunction with the fiscal budget, and is approved by the Central Bank, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, and the Prime Minister. Product priorities are determined by the Ministry of Economy and Supply. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be processed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of certain govern- ment agencies, and imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company (YPC), a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. Importers holding an import license must obtain the necessary foreign exchange from local banks. Margin deposits are prescribed against letters of credit opened for imports, as follows: 40 percent for foodstuffs, medi- cine, and petroleum products; 60 percent for raw mate- rials; and 100 percent for all other products. In addition to the applicable customs du ty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent, a statistical tax of 2 percent, and a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction related to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. The export of foreign currencies up to the equivalent of US$2,000 (US$5,000 for purposes of medical treatment) is permitted w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with local banks. Exports of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. All visitors (with the 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC exception of foreign embassy staff, foreign experts as- signed to the government, and employees of international organizations) are required to exchange the equivalent of US$150 upon arrival. Capital Restrictions are not imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Industry. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes, or of their capital. Certain tax and customs du ty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement January 6. The official exchange rate was depreciated by 10.4 percent from YRls 6.485 = US$1 to YRls 7.24 - US$1. November 26. The official exchange rate was depre- ciated by 19.5 percent from YRls 7.24 = US$1 to YRls 8.99 - US$1. Administration of Control July 16. The Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply were merged into the Ministry of Economy and Supply. Imports and Import Payments July 8. The ratios of margin deposits required when opening import letters of credit were raised from 20 percent to 40 percent for foodstuffs, medicine, and pe- troleum products; from 25 percent to 60 percent for raw materials; and from 40 percent to 100 percent for all other imports. July 8. Imports of luxury goods, including automobiles and pe r fume, were suspended for the rest of the year. Proceeds from Invisibles July 8. All visitors (except foreign embassy staff, foreign experts assigned to the Government, and employees of international organizations) were required to exchange the equivalent of US$150 upon arrival. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and authorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1986 the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the market rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in traveler's checks and bank notes, are classified into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordi- nary money changers, whose principal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign ex- change only from their customers and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the National Bank not later than the following business day. While the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, secondary deal- ers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel are prohib- ited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in convertible currencies and surren- dered to the authorized dealer; proceeds from exports or re-exports to specified neighboring countries may be surrendered in the currencies of such countries. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Ac- counts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign bank notes (unless they have been declared to the customs on entry), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Yemeni nationals working abroad may establish non- resident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of cars other than those needed for development projects are also prohibited. All imports require individual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt from the licensing requirements. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a mo- nopoly over imports of all consumer goods, with the exception of medical supplies and hospital equipment, which are handled by the National Company for Drugs. 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, of all government requirements, and of most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Dem- ocratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties, except that the proceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender requirement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to undertake to repatriate in convertible currencies commissions, profits, and other expenses re- lating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The ''Inducement to Invest Law" divides foreign investments into two cate- gories: (1) projects which realize self-sufficiency in their requirements for foreign currency; these may remit net annual profits due on invested capital within the limit of the credit of their exports; and (2) projects of primary importance for the national economy; these may remit the whole of the annual net profits due on capital invested. Projects that were set up prior to 1971 may remit all of their net profit. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is the equiv- alent of YD 100 a person a trip to all destinations other than the Yemen Arab Republic (the allowance for the Yemen Arab Republic is YR ls 2,000); for children aged between 2 and 10 years, the basic exchange allowance is one half of these amounts. Allowances for medical treat- ment abroad are normally granted in accordance with the amount estimated by the Ministry of Health. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 percent and 100 percent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 percent of their total earnings. Nonnationals doing business in the country can remit abroad up to the equivalent of YD 50 a month for family maintenance. All insurance is nation- alized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and pay- ments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bank notes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may take out any foreign ex- change declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to individual licensing. All neighboring countries specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Proceeds of exports or re-exports to neighboring countries may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or re- ceived from an External Account) and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 percent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equiv- alent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their entire savings to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Inducement to Invest Law (enacted in 1981) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. Five years after invest- ment, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of assignment, actual liquidation, or book value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 percent a year; if, however, the owner of the Yemeni, Arab, or foreign capital encounters operational difficulties, his capital may, upon approval, be re transferred to its place of origin one year after entry. This provision also applies to the reinvested part of such capital. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Projects authorized under this law are exempt from income tax for up to five years from the commencement of production and may carry losses forward. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing female residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 20 tolas,1 subject to registration in their passports. Arriving female nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas duty free and up to an additional 75 tolas after paying import du ty at a exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for exports to ^ne tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN rate of 30 percent. Arr iv ing male nationals may bring in gold ornamen ts up to 90 tolas, of which 10 tolas are du ty free. Changes During 1986 Payments for Invisibles April 2. The basic exchange allowance for tour ism was changed to YD 100 a person a trip to all destinations other than the Yemen Arab Republic, and to YRls 2,000 a person a trip to the Yemen Arab Republic. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 57, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not maintain the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins. All transactions, other than those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at an exchange rate adjusted from time to time by the authorities. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1986 were Din 456.49 and Din 457.87, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar for transactions on bilateral accounts was Din 411.01 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates the decision on foreign exchange policy of the country for each year; the projections of the balance of paymen ts and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are component parts of this decision. The Federal Execu t ive Council (FEC) prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export licenses and instructions when requ ired. It is also charged w i th securing balanced trade w i th paymen ts agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the Na- tional Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autonomous provinces administer the ex- change controls. The National Bank of Yugoslavia pre- scribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Access to foreign exchange for most imports is determined by an authorized bank on the basis of an enterprise's import and export record; in the case of scheduled debt service paymen ts and specified imports, access to foreign exchange is not restricted; in the case of other imports (i.e., those subject to quota or license), the right to import and to effect the corresponding pay- ment is determined w i th in the Yugoslav Chamber of the Economy. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: (1) fu l ly authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees); (2) banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transac- tions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically au- thorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose. Economic or- ganizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through economic organizations that are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Individual residents may not engage in foreign trade. Arrears have arisen sporadically with respect to exter- nal commercial payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the cur- rencies, and according to the procedures, set forth in these agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring denomination of transactions in clearing U.S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Dem- ocratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies with fully authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign currencies with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances held in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign juridical 'Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the country to which the bilateral account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may in certain cases and under specified conditions open nonresident accounts in dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibility of using dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferability of the funds depend on the origin of the dinar deposits. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immediate family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pen- sions, disability allowances, compensations to persons decorated with the Order of the National Hero, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected under spec- ified conditions. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange ac- counts or foreign exchange savings deposits in convertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the deposited foreign currency and bear interest paid in dinars, or in dinars or foreign exchange for foreign exchange accounts of Yugoslavs temporarily working abroad. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefinitely and cash withdrawals from most banks are limited to US$250 a month on the basis of the regulation of the Federal Executive Council. Other paymen ts in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate family can be made freely; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugo- slav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants re- turn ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia, subject to the same limitations. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by economic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. Most major industrial producers are so registered, in addition to economic organizations that specialize in foreign trade. For imports of certain basic foodstuffs, such as hard wheat, rice, butter, and special kinds of edible oil, quotas are fixed by the Federal Executive Council; importation of such goods is carried out either by particular economic organizations or through the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomencla- YUGOSLAVIA ture are classified into four categories: LB —free; LBO— conditionally free; K —subject to quotas; and D —subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly medicine, medical and hospital equipment, essential materials for net ex- porting enterprises, and spare parts for existing equipment not produced in Yugoslavia. Entitlement to foreign ex- change for the importation of goods in this category is automatic. The LBO category includes raw materials, intermediate goods (including nonmerchandise services), and capital goods not produced in Yugoslavia. The ability of an enterprise to import items in this category other than capital goods depends on its import and export record; in the case of capital goods, the ability depends on the total value of the depreciation of its equipment and the value of its realized export. The computation of an enterprise's ability to import items in this category is undertaken by a fully authorized bank. Imports subject to quotas (K list) are raw materials, such as crude oil, coal, steel, nonferrous metals, etc., as well as equipment competing with that produced in Yugoslavia. The quotas are globally set for each product by the Federal Executive Council, and are allocated among Organizations of Associate Labor (in value or volume terms) within the Yugoslav Chamber of the Economy. Such allocations are made in accordance with projections of material balances, which are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the Organizations of Associate Labor are unable to agree among themselves, or if the allocation does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to determine the distribution. Imports subject to licensing by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade (D list) include products whose impor- tation is limited by international agreements for noneco- nomic reasons (e.g., arms, drugs, and narcotics, and historical and artistic work), food products (e.g., coffee, sugar, and edible oil), and high-value types of goods (airplanes, ships, etc.). Importation of these products is allowed on an individual basis and for specific purposes. For certain goods, there is an additional requ irement of accordance issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them in accordance with rules governing citizens' right to import and for purchases of domestically produced goods with dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Yugoslav nationals who have worked at least two years abroad continuously may import capital equipment nec- essary for performance of a legally permitted professional 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA activity, provided that such equipment is imported within a three-year period from the date of re turn, and that the value of each labor ins trument is below Din 15,000,000. They may also freely import spare parts for maintenance of capital equipment. In addition, self-employed Yugoslav nationals may import intermediate goods necessary for performance of a legally permitted professional activity, up to the value of Din 4,000,000 a year; this amount may be increased if the Yugoslav national in question employs other people. Yugoslav nationals may import motor ve- hicles through consignments if payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank; they may also import motor vehicles directly from abroad if they have spent at least two years abroad, provided that they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. In addition, they may import motor vehicles inherited abroad. Imports of motor vehicles are also permissible for military invalids or foreign nationals asking for permanent resi- dence in Yugoslavia. A 1 percent tax for customs evidence and a 7 percent tax equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs du ty. Many agricultural com- modities are subject to variable import levies. Returning resident travelers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to exporters. Payments for other invisibles in relation to production needs may be made on the same basis as conditionally free (LBO) import paymen ts, i.e., on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation based on the import and export record of any enterprise. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts and fue l, by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international freight and passenger transportation are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances from their foreign exchange accounts for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, nonresident persons may effect the following payments abroad: payments for im- proving labor relationships, pensions, disability allow- ances, and paymen ts to recipients of an Order of the National Hero; alimony paymen ts, payments for court- ordered compensations or indemnities, the profits of foreign contractors performing capital construction work in Yugoslavia; and 10 percent of the proceeds from cultural, entertainment, sport, and other performances given by foreign groups or individuals. In addition, copy- right royalties are transferable abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity and if foreign exchange resources have been provided. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fu l ly transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, 538 then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Transfers to con- vertible currency countries of funds realized by nonres- idents from selling property inherited in Yugoslavia can be effected on the basis of the approval of the Federal Secretariat for Finance under conditions of reciprocity in inheritances and in transfers. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to residents for payment of specified medical treatment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad, and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate authorities in the republics and autono- mous provinces. Not more than Din 2,500 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 1,000 or less, may be taken out (or brought in) by travelers on the first trip during the year; and not more than Din 500 a person can be taken out (or brought in) on subsequent trips during the same year. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation with foreign countries must be surrendered to fully authorized commercial banks immediately upon repatriation. In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain livestock, vegetable oils) and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs require licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from exports must be repatriated. The normal period of repatriation is 60 days from the date of exportation. All foreign exchange earnings must be surrendered to fu l ly authorized banks immediately upon repatriation. Proceeds from exports on credit must be repatriated within the period of time stipulated under the credit agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 60 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering services is subject to approval (''accordance") by the Federal Com- mittee for Energy and Indus try. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including pay- ments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia within 30 days from work completion and sold to authorized banks. With specified exceptions, proceeds from services are subject to the same surrender requirements and procedures as are pro- ceeds from exports of goods. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific arrangements be- tween Yugoslavia and foreign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugo- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution slavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the full amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate fam i ly; cash withdrawals are limited to US$250 a month and they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 2,500 in Yugoslav bank notes, in denominations of Din 1,000 or less, may be brought in by travelers on the first trip during the year, and not more than Din 500 on subsequent trips during the same year. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance with criteria established by the Law on Foreign Credit Rela- tions of 1985 and with the general legislation established by the FEC. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organi- zations but only through joint ventures. There is no limit on the share of foreign investment in the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted in proportion to the share of the foreign partner's contributions to the income generated on the basis of the resources invested and up to the amount of foreign currency earned by the joint venture from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a jo int venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in for- eign enterprises may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by federal law; ap- proval for such capital should be obtained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, under the procedure spec- ified by existing legislation. Access to foreign exchange for debt service paymen ts is automatic and receives priority over all other paymen ts. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain commemo- rative gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia but cannot export it except with the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Such gold coin may be sold to any authorized bank, and residents may freely YUGOSLAVIA hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance with the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been reg- istered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the K import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coin. Producers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the international gold market. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price that equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes During 1986 Administration of Control January 1. The Yugoslav Commun i ty of Interest for Foreign Economic Retention (CIFER) was abolished in accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Opera- tions which was passed by the Federal Assembly on December 6, 1985 and entered into effect on January 1, 1986. Access to foreign exchange for most imports under the new system would be determined by an authorized bank on the basis of an en terpr ise's import and export record; in the case of scheduled debt paymen ts and specified imports, access to foreign exchange would not be restricted; in the case of other imports ( i .e ., those subject to quota or license), the right to import and to effect the corresponding payment would be determined w i th in the Yugoslav Chamber of the Economy. Under the system in effect un t il the end of 1985, the Yugoslav CIFER prescribed un iform criteria on the basis of which enterprises concluded self-management agreements on the allocation of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Under the new exchange and trade system, the right to make import payments is determined by the import regime, which has classified importable products into four categories: free, conditionally free, subject to quotas, and subject to licensing. While access to foreign exchange for the first, third, and fourth categories of products will be either unrestricted or determined by the Federal Executive Council, the right to import and to effect payments in the case of conditionally free imports will be determined for each enterprise on the basis of its previous import and export record. November 20. Raw materials for medical products corresponding to 150 customs categories (about 2 percent of the total) were moved from the quota to the free category. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Under the new exchange and trade system, access to foreign exchange for debt service payments became automatic. 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Export and Export Proceeds January 1. Under the new exchange and trade system, all foreign exchange earnings must be surrendered to fully authorized banks immediately upon repatriation; previ- ously, an exporting enterprise surrendered a portion of its export earnings to the National Bank of Yugoslavia and was permitted to keep the remainder in a foreign exchange account, to sell it to an authorized bank, or to use it for payments abroad in accordance with the existing regulations. The normal period of repatriation was short- ened from 90 to 60 days from the date of exportation. Capital January 1. Borrowing abroad by Organizations of Associated Labor and other social legal persons became subject to regulation under the Law on Foreign Credit Relations, which was passed by the Federal Assembly on December 6, 1985. January 1. Under the new exchange and trade system, access to foreign exchange for debt service payments became automatic. 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. The official exchange rate of the zaire is freely determined in the interbank foreign exchange market, in which the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) participates. A weekly fixing is conducted every Friday, under which the fixing rate in terms of the U.S. dollar is set at a level that allows the largest buying bid to be transacted; bids without limits are effected first, and to the extent possible those for specified amounts could be effected on a split basis. The SDR equivalent of the fixing rate is then maintained during the following week. Whatever the weekly fixing rate is, commercial banks are free to negotiate the rates in their daily transactions among themselves, as well as with their clients. On December 31, 1986 the midpoint exchange rate of the zaire in the interbank market was Z 7 1 .1 = US$1. The official exchange rates for the zaire against 20 currencies1 in which authorized banks (and other inter- mediaries) are permitted to deal are published daily by the Bank of Zaire; the rates for the zaire against these currencies are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire on the basis of the SDR rates for these currencies, applying the SDR rate for the zaire which prevailed at the last weekly fixing. In addition to a commission charge of not more than 1 percent, foreign exchange transactions between the authorized commercial banks and nonbank customers are subject to an exchange control fee of 3 per mill, payable to the Bank of Zaire. There are no commission charges or exchange fees on foreign exchange transactions in the interbank market. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange abroad and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance and Budget, manages the medium- and long-term external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including terms and guarantees extended by the Govern- ment on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external borrow- ing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Payments to nonresidents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies. A bilateral payment agree- ment is maintained with Angola. Settlements with member countries of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (Burundi and Rwanda) and member countries of the Banque des Etats de I'Afrique Centrale (BEAC)2 are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled on a quarterly basis in convertible currencies. Virtually all settlements (other than for re-exports) with the BEAC countries are effected through the Central African Clear- ing House (Chambre de Compensation de I'Afr ique Cen- trale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), Nonresident Convertible Ac- counts (comptes etrangers convertibles}, Nonresident Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and Nonresident Special Accounts (comptes etrangers indis- ponibles}. All nonresident accounts are composed of non- interest-bearing sight deposits, and no overdraft is permitted. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire; such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and official multinational organizations), official civil and military missions, representative offices in Zaire of foreign trans- portation companies, and nonresidents entitled to receive payments in zaires for services rendered in Zaire under agreements with or approved by the Executive Council or the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be credited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresi- den ts in the following cases: (1) paymen ts authorized by 2Cameroon, Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of foreign currencies from nonresident convertible accounts; (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire charged against other currencies of that category; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from nonresidents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) paymen ts in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments in foreign currency in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against zaires with proceeds to be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts; (3) foreign exchange proceeds from arbitrage transactions in foreign currencies; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) with- drawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Convertible Accounts may be credited with (1) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank marke t; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible accounts as well as from nonresident foreign currency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks for services rendered in Zaire and authorized for settlement in either domestic or foreign currency by the Bank of Zaire. They may be freely debited for (1) paymen ts (with the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire) to residents for services rendered in Zaire (excluding exports of goods and serv- ices); (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other nonresident con- vertible accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as down paymen ts or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zaires from nonresident convertible accounts; and (3) receipts in zaires from residents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time of opening such accounts. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts can be opened for non- residents entitled to receive specified payments on ac- count of (1) sale or rent from real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by non- residents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, commercial, industrial, and 542 service companies located in Zaire and owned by non- residents, together with the proceeds from repayments of debt secured by mortgage owed to nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents permanently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a nonresident special ac- count opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons, as must proceeds from the sale of real estate or the renting of fixed capital owned by non- Zairian residents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (1) living expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts up to a maximum of SDR 150 a day (for a max imum period of two months); (2) transportation fares (excluding airline tickets) incurred by the holders when traveling within Zaire; (3) transfers to religious organizations or any nonprofit cultural, philanthropic, or social organiza- tions (up to a maximum of SDR 10,000 a year); (4) banking commissions and fees; (5) local taxes payable to the Central Government of Zaire; (6) medical fees; (7) insur- ance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (8) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Imports and Import Payments Importation of a number of goods, including mainly arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, certain alcoholic beverages, and equipment for aerial and maritime navigation is prohibited (or requires a special authorization from the Executive Council) on grounds of public policy. All other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks and import declarations registered by them remain valid for customs clearance for six mon th s, but the validity may be extended if shipment has begun. Extension of the validity period requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including paymen ts up to 30 days from date of shipment). Payments upon shipment are autho- rized, provided that the importer obtains a 6 percent rebate on the f .o .b. value. The mode of payment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Interest paymen ts on foreign financing for imports are authorized only if the importer has obtained a supplier's credit or other form of foreign financing with a maturity of at least 90 days, and provided that no advance deposit in foreign currency with the foreign correspondent of the authorized bank involved has been made. A detailed record of all financing charges is required to be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the domestic authorized bank and is used as a basic document to ju s t i fy any paymen ts of import financing charges. Financing charges are treated as invisible paymen ts associated with the import trans- action involved. Authorized banks are allowed to pay transportation and insurance costs in foreign currency only on imports for which they pay on an f .o .b. basis. In ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution principle, the amoun t, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Office Zairois de Controle (OZAC); however, in an emergency the verification may be effected upon arrival by establishing a guarantee representing 40 percent of the f .o .b. value. Moreover, importers are not required to submit to their banks the verification certifi- cates delivered by OZAC (or any of its agents abroad) with respect to preshipment controls for imports payable upon arrival with a value (f.o.b.) of less than SDR 1,000. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports transported by foreign air carriers with charges payable in foreign currency, if such costs exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; (2) imports in the form of foreign grants to residents other than the state and subordinate authorities, whenever the value exceeds SDR 1,000; (3) imports with a value in excess of SDR 1,000 in the form of foreign contributions to capital; (4) imports financed with suppliers' credits or other interest- bearing foreign financing with a maturity exceeding one year, other than those contracted or guaranteed by the Gove rnmen t; (5) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency prior to sh ipmen t; and (6) all imports financed with means of payment other than foreign ex- change purchased from authorized commercial banks in Zaire, proceeds from nonresident accounts held abroad with the authorization of the Bank of Zaire, foreign grants, foreign contributions to capital, and customary short- term foreign trade financing. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is not required for (1) imports in the form of foreign grants to the state and subordinate authorities or financed through suppliers' credits or other forms of foreign credit with a ma tur i ty of more than one year contracted or guaranteed by the Governmen t; (2) imports for use in the operations of foreign transportation companies represented in Zaire; (3) diplomatic imports; (4) imports in the form of foreign grants in kind with a value of up to SDR 1,000 (up to unlimited amounts for imports in the form of foreign grants to recognized religious, philanthropic, scientific, or cultural organizations); (5) commercial samples without market value; (6) imports in the form of foreign contri- butions to the physical capital of enterprises with a value of up to SDR 1,000; (7) goods for personal use imported into Zaire in connection with relocation; (8) baggage and personal effects of travelers; (9) imports of journals, periodicals, and newspapers for personal use as well as for domestic sale, as permitted by the Executive Council; (10) imports in the form of foreign con tr ibu t ions to capital under the Inves tment Code or the ZOFI regime; (11) imports by air, for which the freight payable in foreign currency to Air Zaire does not exceed SDR 200; (12) emergency imports of spare parts, Pharmaceuticals, and precision ins t rumen ts for wh ich the freight payable to Air Zaire does not exceed SDR 500; and (13) imports of data processing equ ipmen t, provided a prior authorization has been granted by SPIZ. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangements be- tween Zaire and specified countries (Belgium, Canada, ZAIRE People's Republic of China, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Japan, United Kingdom, and United States) are governed by separate provisions. Payments for Invisibles In principle, all paymen ts for invisibles are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Zairian freight is reserved exclusively to bonded ship- owners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by the Office Zairois de Gestion des Frets Maritimes. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon shipment. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zairoise. Other paymen ts relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, out- ward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees during the year are limited to the levels authorized during 1981; the Bank of Zaire may grant internal arrangements within the global limits upon application by a firm. The transfer abroad of salaries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the nontransferable amount is suff ic ient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are authorized. Transfers of nonres- idents' rental income are suspended. Payments for com- missions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires for trips starting in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amoun ts that depend on the duration of the jou rney and the status of the traveler. Zairian nationals residing in Zaire are allowed to purchase foreign exchange at the authorized commer- cial banks to cover the following expenditures: travel expenses, medical expenses, and s tuden ts' tuition and living costs, as well as training expenses incurred abroad. For trips to Bu rundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled to purchase once a month the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The import (or export) of Zairian notes and coin as well as other Zairian means of paymen t, by both residents and nonresidents, is prohibited. However, the import of such means of payment by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized w i th in the limits of the agreements between the members of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations. The declaration must spec- 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE ify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are nor- mally valid for 90 days; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Coffee may be ex- ported only by recognized coffee exporters; such exports are subject to quality control. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAMINES), which is authorized to retain 45 percent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad and must surrender the remainder to the Bank of Zaire. Partial nonrepatriation and retention abroad are also permitted for a limited number of other enterprises, including the Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA —65 percent) and the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (MIBA —20 percent), while full retention of export receipts in accounts abroad are per- mitted for the oil corporations (hydrocarbon exploration and development companies). The trade of artisanal gold and diamonds is free within Zaire, with exports being channeled through marketing agencies (comptoirs agrees) authorized by the Department of Mines and Energy. Industrial diamonds are sold through the De Beers Group. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cocoa, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. The export of Zairian notes and coin as well as other Zairian means of payment is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Authorized banks may retain all their foreign exchange receipts from invisibles on the same basis as their export receipts. Travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes or other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, provided that they declare them for the purpose of obtaining approval from immigration upon entering in Zaire. Declaration of means of payment denominated in for- eign currency is not required upon departure. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted only at the time of liquidation, while the transfer of profits and dividends of such capital is guaranteed. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not authorized. The net foreign currency asset position of authorized banks is not permitted to exceed 40 percent of their own resources. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, trans- port, sell, or hold gold w i th in Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for account of authorized marketing agencies. With the ex- ception of jewe lry, imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Up to 50 percent of gold produced by mining companies is pur- chased by the Bank of Zaire under agreed terms. The Bank of Zaire may authorize part of the gold produced by these companies to be sold to residents for their industrial activities. There is free trade in domestic gold mined by small-scale producers. Changes During 1986 Imports and Import Payments April 10. When letters of credit for imports are opened, 80 percent of import duties must be paid, with the remainder falling due at the time of customs clearance. August 1. A new tariff structure became effective, limiting the max imum import du ty to 60 percent except for large vehicles (80 percent) and textiles (100 percent), and raising the m in imum du ty to 10 percent except for basic food products, agricultural inpu ts, and pharmaceu- tical goods (5 percent). Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. A flat tax on coffee exports was replaced by a tax with a progressive schedule of 2 percent, 6 percent, and 8 percent on the value of exports depending on the export price. June 6. New regulations were introduced, simplifying the procedures for exporters to obtain foreign prefinancing. 544 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha, for wh ich the in te rven t ion currency is the U .S. dollar. The exchange rate of the kwacha is determined at a weekly auction that takes into account the private sector's de- mand for foreign exchange in relation to the available supp ly .1 The foreign exchange requ iremen ts of the Gov- e rnment and the Zambian Consolidated M in ing Company (ZCCM), as well as allocations to commercial banks for purposes of work ing balances, are derived from adm in- istrative allocations. All other transactions are channeled through the auction marke t. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U .S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates w i th the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings w i th the commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 percent for purchases and sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1986 the Bank of Zambia's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 12.9428 - US$1 and K 13.0077 = US$1, respectively. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for transactions by telegraphic transfers, and 1.25 percent for sales and purchases and transfers and foreign currency notes, when quoting their rates to customers. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is formulated by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Arrears are maintained with respect to external paymen ts. Prescription of Currency Authorized paymen ts, inc lud ing paymen ts for imports, by res iden ts of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cu r rency. Paymen ts from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Accoun t, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U .S. dollars or pounds sterling. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of other countries are designated Nonresident Accounts .2 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers from other Nonres ident Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresi- dents to authorized banks. They may be debited for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other Nonresident Accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency from dealers with prior exchange control permission. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any coun try other than Zambia are credited with non- transferable capital sums in Zambian cu r rency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allowance for a remittance to the coun try of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the inves tment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The import from all countries of certain specified commodities is prohibited for reasons of hea l th, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effec ts, samples, diplomatic sh ipmen ts, and means of transportation en- tering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consump t ion, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no payment may be made for goods not licensed, even where the value is less than K 50. The Controller of Customs is authorized to adm it emergency goods imported w i thout prior reference to the M in is try of Commerce. All other imports require ind iv idual import licenses. Import licenses are issued w i thout restriction, and are not used for purposes of industrial protection; fees amoun t ing to 5 percent of the value of the imported goods are levied in this connection. Importers must obtain foreign exchange through bidding at the auction before letters of credit can be opened by the commercial banks, and all f inanc ial arrangements between importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zambia. Importers intending to import goods not invo lv ing use of official foreign exchange must obtain the prior approval of the Bank of 'The week ly foreign exchange auc t ion sys tem was d iscon t inued from Janua ry 23, 1987. j j Au thor ized b anks are requ i red to obtain prior perm iss ion from the exchange control au tho r i t ies before des igna t ing any new Ex ternal Ac- coun t, except when the account is to be opened for a tempo ra ry visitor. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Zambia before app ly ing to the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry for a "no fund s" import license. The Bank of Zambia does not approve paymen ts for imports un less a satisfactory report regarding p resh ipment inspection is issued by in terna t ional agencies. Import license issued w i thout restriction by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus try must be obtained by importers before proceeding to the Bank of Zambia for approval and, subsequen t ly, to the commercial banks for the issuance of letters of credit. The commercial banks are required to subm it to the Bank of Zambia a weekly re turn on letters of credit opened, giving specified in fo rma t ion. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 15 percent of taxable value, which is calculated on the basis of 120 percent of the customs value, plus the applicable customs du ty. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts in foreign exchange for fre ight and other charges on imports require the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. The basic allowance for bus iness travel is US$180 a person a day for up to 14 days a calendar year; foreign exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Allowance for holiday travel is US$500 an adult a year. Travel allowance of US$50 per trip is granted to children re- turn ing to schools overseas. Rem i t tances abroad of part or all of paymen ts for advertising, managemen t, accounting, adm in is t ra t ive, en- gineering, and consulting services rendered to res iden ts by nonres iden ts are issued by us ing foreign exchange obtained through the auction. Profits and dividends de- clared after October 31, 1985 of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 percent of the nonres ident share of the equ i ty capital, or 50 percent of net prof i ts accruing to the nonres ident owners of incorporated companies, wh ichever is smaller, w i th for- eign exchange obtained through the auction. Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of the ir after- tax p ro f i ts, inc lud ing prof i ts earned from a pa r tne rsh ip or private limited company engaged in farming. A fu r ther 10 percent may be held to the ir credit every year for even tual rem i t tance when they leave Zambia. Such re- mittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The rem i t tance of depreciation allow- ances is not perm i t ted. Airlines that do not land and pick up passengers in Zambia are not allowed to remit funds abroad, except for those funds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia may remit up to US$6,600 per year in mon th ly installments as an "inducement allowance." In addition, they may remit an end-of-contract gratuity of up to 25 percent of the cu- mulative inducement allowances. The paymen ts of ex- patriates employed by the Gove rnment and the ZCCM are made from the ir own allocations of foreign exchange, while all other paymen ts are to be made from the work ing balance of commercial banks. Foreign nationals availing 546 themse lves of these arrangemen ts are not en t i t led to the regular allowances for t rave l, educa t ion, and ma in te- nance; the ir leave salary, g ra tu i ty, and o ther term inal benef i ts are transferable only on completion of the con- tract period. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a max imum of K 10 in Zambian cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agreements with the mining companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in pr inc ip le, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Certain commodities are subject to licensing ma in ly to ensure domestic supp l ies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as imp l em en ts of war, lead in any fo rm, certain m inera ls, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and j u te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued f ree ly. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the coun t ry of des t ina t ion must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank w i t h in six mon ths of the date of sh ipmen t; the ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt and is allocated up to 40 percent of export earnings to meet its own foreign exchange needs. All exports must be financed through irrevocable letters of credit and be registered w i th the Bank of Zambia. As an export incen t ive, up to 50 percent of nontraditional export proceeds is allowed to be retained for a specified time period by the exporter on application to the Bank of Zambia. Un less evidence of conversion of at least an equ iva lent amount in exchange can be prov ided, hotel bills payable by non re s iden ts mu st be settled in foreign exchange. Nonna t ional agricultural producers are eligible for cer- tain incen t ives in the form of foreign exchange, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, whea t, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incen t ives for na t ional agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a max imum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not res tr ic ted, but w i th the exception of overseas shor t- term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowings outside Zambia require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Ou tward transfers of capital are controlled, but non res iden ts are norma l ly perm i t ted to repatriate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution their inves tmen ts when they have satisfied the authorities that the original inves tment was made w i th funds brought into the coun try from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is re- stricted to a deb t-equ i ty ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure h igher emp loyment opportunities or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, are requ ired to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange accruing to them. As a special measu re, however, resi- den ts may purchase Zambian securities quoted on rec- ognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the se- curities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and tha t, in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities, the sales proceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these inve s tmen ts must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as follows: (1) settling-in allowance of the equivalent of K 6,000 for a single person, K 8,000 for a married couple, K 12,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 500 per child up to a max imum of four children; and (2) anniversary allowance of the equivalent of K 3,000 for a single person, K 6,000 for a married couple, and K 7,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for num isma t ic purposes. W i th th is exception, res iden ts other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and au thor ized in- dustrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is exported by cop- per companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes During 1986 Exchange Arrangement March 6. Coverage of the week ly foreign exchange auction was expanded to inc lude paymen ts for all petro- leum and petroleum produc ts, paymen ts by TAZAMA ZAMBIA Pipeline, payments for I AT A bills in respect of Zambia Airways; and payments by TAZARA Railway. July 15. It was announced that in order to participate in the auc t ion, bids must be accompanied by (1) an income tax clearance certificate indicating that the bidder met in fu ll his income tax obligations in previous years; (2) a certificate from the commercial banks ind ica t ing that no more than 20 percent overdraft financing was used in the domes t ic financing for each b id; (3) s ta temen ts showing the use of foreign exchange obtained in auctions held 90 days earlier; and (4) certificates indicating that companies are current on paymen ts of cus toms du t ies and sales taxes on domestically produced goods. September 16. The requ i rement that banks must certify that no more than 20 percent of the domes t ic value of an auction bid had been financed by the use of overdraft (introduced on Ju ly 15) was w i thd rawn. Novembers. All bids subm i t ted to the foreign exchange auction were required to be accompanied by a non- interest-bearing advance deposit equ iva lent to 30 percent of the value of the bids. Such deposits would be re turned three working days after the announcement of the auction resu l ts for unsuccess ful b ids, and 90 days after the auction for successful bids. Imports and Import Payments April 18. The Bank of Zambia informed authorized dealers that it would not approve paymen ts to suppliers un less the goods have a satisfactory report from Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) on preshipment inspection. Payments for Invisibles January 8. The travel allowance for ch i ldren re tu rn ing to schools overseas was set at US$50 per trip. August 9. The foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel was suspended. September 8. The foreign exchange allowance for bus iness travel was increased to US$180 per day for a max imum of 14 days or a max imum of US$2,520 during any calendar year. November3. The access to foreign exchange for holiday travel (suspended on October 7) was restored. The max- imum allowance was set at US$500 per adu lt a calendar year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 8. Incen t ives for non-Zambian producers of agricultural goods were increased in the form of paymen ts in foreign currency for ou tput in excess of specified limits. Capital April 21. Ann ive r sa ry allowances for emigrants who left Zambia after October 4, 1985 were set at K 3,000 for a single person under the age of 50, K 6,000 for a married couple, and K 7,500 for persons over 50 years. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1986) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dollar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U .S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buy ing and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 31, 1986 the buying and selling rates were US$0.5983 and US$0.5935respectively, per Z$ l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade trans- actions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or premium rates for major currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and Development, in terms of the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control In- structions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars issued period- ically. Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended, the Con- trol of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regula- tions of 1974, as amended, the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979, the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979, and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of paymen ts otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agree- ment, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern 'There are 17 denominated currencies which are freely convertible through authorized dealers: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian l ire, Japa- nese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 548 African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use national currencies in the day-to-day paymen ts during a transaction period of two calendar mon ths; monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by persons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with paymen ts from other nonres ident accounts, or with paymen ts by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zim- babwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents, for paymen ts to other nonresident accounts, or for paymen ts abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Z imbabwe. Cash assets held in Z imbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all paymen ts to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. (At present the OGIL covers very few items .) Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development, and are made available through the Ministry of Trade and Commerce and the Ministry of Indus try and Technology. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce basically handles allocations for goods in the commercial category, while those in the industrial category are handled by the Ministry of Indus try and Technology. Imports in the commercial category include imports by merchants of raw materials, mach inery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essentiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of emp loyment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign exchange allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers re- ceive through the Ministry of Industry and Technology ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution separate allocations for raw materials required for pro- duction for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, while the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with possible additional allocation from an export revolving fund against proof of exports. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign ex- change allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but the validity period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f.o.b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and proc- essed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Mar- keting Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied in the case of certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs du ty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 40 percent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of 18 percent or 23 percent, which is the countervailing levy to the sales tax imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Appli- cations for foreign exchange exceeding the limit estab- lished for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$60 a day, up to a maximum of Z$450 for a 12-month period. The allowance may be accumulated up to three years but it is not granted in advance. (Children under 10 years are entitled to one half of these amounts .) A fee of 20 percent is applied on sales of foreign exchange for purposes of holiday travel. The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related business travel is Z$100 a day, up to a maximum of Z$ 1,500 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$3,000; for export-related business travel, the exchange allowance is Z$125 a day, for a maximum of Z$2,000 a trip and an annual limit of Z$4,000. Applications for business travel allowance exceeding the ZIMBABWE specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level, within the following limits: Z$4,000 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and Z$l0,000 a year for education at specified universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a maximum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remittances of up to Z$40 for subscriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$50. Remittances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each family un i t, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Outward remit- tances in respect of fees for technical, administrative, management, and consultancy services or to defray ex- ternal expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Previously blocked fund s, whether already converted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if, when matched by an inflow of investment funds from abroad on a 50-50 or similar basis, they are rein- vested in Zimbabwe in an approved project. As new venture capital, the total investment will be eligible for remittable dividends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new inves tmen t, unlike new venture capital, must remain reinvested in Zimbabwe for a m in imum of seven to ten years, depending on individual cases. With effect from January 1, 1986, suspended remit- tances of profits and dividends declared from March 27, 1984 through December 31, 1985 and maintained in the "suspended accounts" with commercial banks can be released by means of six-year, 4 percent government bonds; with effect from the same date, remittances of profits and dividends are governed by the applicable regulations that were in effect prior to March 1984, involving a limit of 50 percent on the rate of profit after tax. Outward transfers of interest earnings are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the Reserve Bank. Beginning from March 27, 1984, the settling-in allowance that can be remitted abroad by emigrants is limited to Z$ 1,000 per family unit. In excep- tional and deserving cases, the exchange control author- ities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. Before these changes, transferable allowances at the time of emigration were as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; (3) family un i ts and single persons with dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$ 1,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$10,000; and (7) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$10,000. A further release of capital is made as an annual allowance on the 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Beginning from April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within a period of six mon ths and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in Government of Zim- babwe external bonds. In exceptional cases of emigrants unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of the travel allowance, not more than Z$20 in Zimbabwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out traveler's checks they imported less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zim- babwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on pre- sentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products that are not covered by the OGIL; these include (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, l i th ium, nickel, t in, or tungs ten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export licensing requ iremen ts are intended to ensure adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be so made within three months from the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received within 90 days in the following manner: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement (see above, under Prescription of Currency), member countries can use national currencies in the settlement of payments during a transaction period of two mon ths, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are required to be sold to authorized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an 550 authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported w i thout restrictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a max imum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all foreign inves tmen ts, irrespective of their source, that are undertaken through normal banking channels since Sep- tember 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requ irement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the established medium of external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Septem- ber 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed w i th in limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. Beginning from March 27, 1984, former residents hold- ing blocked assets, and new emigrants, are allowed to invest their funds in Government of Zimbabwe external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. The remittability of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the Constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unmanu fac tu red form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The administration of the Order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The import of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act. The Act provides for certain requirements to be met when a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; or (2) he is the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE quantity does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can only be issued by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank International Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the ten th day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act author- izing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1986 Prescription of Currency January. A trade agreement was signed with the Islamic Republic of Iran. July. A barter agreement was signed with Austria, and a preferential trade agreement with South Africa was terminated. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status . V TT7 B. Exchange Arrangement3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 <*- o 8 * & £ -§ OH Z C <+* o fr * Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1 . Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (11) pound sterling (I'M) the French franc O'v) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (11) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators («) other managed floating (I'M) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements . 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1 . Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds I e c l d n a - - 2•3e .2 • oc - <4-l 0 ci,<u & o1</5 G 2 D s •aCO1 I j>> "co a J m a i a c c CO £X CO *—» 1s D 1 'I D K i r i a b i t CO ^ & 'cO D ^ i I</5 *0>! o n n a e b j L L s e o t o h CO 1 j L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y D !_i cS %• o CO _ M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v lo For key and footnotes, see page 559. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 C/3 M « i 5 « s '3 | & G 'G Z .2 w C 5 o £ TD ^3 i 1 o 8 J 1 1 | 1 „ „ s . 1 i- 1 , | . 1 -3 i ! 1 , 1 1 S | 1 M i | I | | £ § I I 1 1 | I i | « 1 1 f I 1 a - >E ^ 1 ! t 1 I S S S S S S S ^ S 2 2 2 : z l l 2 £ f i S ( f i f i £ £ ( 5 S l d 3 « « a c g « 8 c 5 5 i gl - - - • - - - • • - - • • - • • - • - - - • - - • • - • - • -• • • • - • • - - - - • • - - • - - • - • • i - 0 * - - - * - 0 - 0- - - - - - - - - • - • - - - . • - • - • • - - - - - - • • - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- • • • - - • • - - - - - - • - - - • - - - • - - • D • - - - • - - • -• D D - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - • - • - - - - • - • - - - - - • • - • - - • - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - • - - - - - - • - • - - - - - • • - • - - • - - - - - - - - -- - - - • - - - - - - • - • - - - - - • • - • - - • - - - - - - - - -- - • - - • • - - - - • - • - - - - - • • - • - - - - - - - • - - - •- • - • - • • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - - • • - - - • - - - •- • - - - - • • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - - • - - - - • - - - -- • • • - - - • - - - - • - - • • - • • - - - • - - - -- - - • - - - • - • - • - - - - • • - • • - - - - - - - - - - - •- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 557 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1 . Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (11) pound sterling (iii) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (0 single currency (11) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (11) other managed floating (iii) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5 . Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1 . Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds o o S l m n o s I l d n a s - - - - - - - o S m a i l a - 03 I < -s 1 - - c 'ed OH CO 03 CO 1CO - u S i r a n m e - S w z a l i d n a - § "8 CO - ex, 0>&, 1 c _031 - 03 1 - T a h l i d n a - o £ - 03 CX) 1 - T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o - T n u i s i a ^ 1 103 Q/J - C/3 £ § W X) Z < 15 - 0 1 3 •oo> '3 - c« B 03 CO •oV '3 D - ^§CUO D - V a u n a t u D - - - V e u z e n e l a - - Z "§ > - - - For key and footnotes, see page 559. 558 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 "3 a 8* « g at & us 0 CO C3 _. <* 45 a- | g E c c - ! I I I s 1 1 a js .« 3 *S e3 .5 >H N N N > > W >H >« - • • - - -- - - - - - -- • - - • - -- - - - - • •- • • - - - • _• • - - - •- • • - - - »- • - - - • •- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- • - • • - • • • - - - -- • - ±^_^_^__^ Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1987 Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. !The listing includes a nonmetro- politan territory (Hong Kong) for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and the Netherlands Antilles, which is a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Ex- change practices indicated in indi- vidual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1986. 3 It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Exchange arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with a group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Indian rupee, South African rand, or Spanish peseta. Restrictions (i.e., official ac- tions directly affecting the avail- ability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on pay- ments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for secu- rity reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. 6Resident-owned funds. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • ACP-EC ACU ADB ADF AfDB AMU ASEAN BCEAO BEAC CACM CAP CARICOM CCCN CEPGL CMEA DAC EC ECCB ECCM ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EFTA EMS EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBRD IDA IMF LAI A LIBOR MFA MFN MTN OAU OECD OEEC PTA UDEAC UN WAEC WAMU List of Abbreviations* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention with the European Communities Asian Clearing Union (or Unit) Asian Development Bank African Development Fund African Development Bank Asian Monetary Unit Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Council for Mutual Economic Assistance Development Aid Committee (of the OECD) European Communities Eastern Caribbean Central Bank East Caribbean Common Market Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Free Trade Association European Monetary System European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Development Association International Monetary Fund Latin America Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral trade negotiations Organization of African Unity Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization for European Economic Cooperation Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States Central African Customs and Economic Union (Union Douaniere et Economique de 1'Afrique Centrale) United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union * This list does not include abbreviations of pure ly national ins t i tu t ions mentioned in the country pages. 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 