 T W E N T Y - T H I RD A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 1972 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY F U ND T W E N T Y - T H I RD A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1972 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 5, 1972 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article X I V, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, / s/ P I E R R E - P A UL S C HW E I T Z ER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O N T E N TS Page P A RT I in Restrictive I. Introduction II. M a in Developments Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Restrictions on Current Invisibles. . Multiple Currency Practices Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports Advance Import Deposits Import Surcharges Export Incentives and Export Taxes Bilateral Payments A r r ang em en t s . . .. Measures Affecting Capital Go ld III. Regional Arrangements 1 3 3 3 4 5 6 6 6 6 7 7 10 10 P A RT II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Bo l iv ia Botswana B raz il Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Ceylon Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo, People's Republic of the Costa R i ca Cyprus Dahomey Denmark 17 21 24 29 34 38 43 47 53 55 56 65 67 69 73 75 79 84 88 95 100 108 112 116 119 123 vii Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia F i ji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Ha i ti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Khmer Republic Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia L ibyan Arab Republic Malagasy Republic Ma lawi Malaysia M a li Ma l ta Mauritania Mauritius Page 128 131 135 140 143 145 147 149 153 167 171 173 177 182 187 190 193 196 197 199 202 205 211 215 219 222 225 229 234 238 . 242 248 251 255 259 263 266 268 269 270 271 275 279 282 285 288 291 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Page Surinam 391 Swaziland 394 Sweden 395 Switzerland 399 Syrian Arab Republic 402 Tanzania 406 Thailand 410 Togo 413 Trinidad and Tobago 417 Tunisia 421 Turkey 426 Uganda 432 United Kingdom 436 United States 447 Upper Volta 454 Uruguay 458 Venezuela 466 Viet-Nam 468 Western Samoa 475 Yemen Arab Republic 477 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of. 479 Yugoslavia 482 Zaire 489 Zambia 491 Analytical Appendix 496 C O N T E N TS Page Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Africa Spain Sudan 298 300 304 307 312 315 320 322 326 330 333 334 340 342 345 352 358 363 365 366 370 373 376 379 384 388 viii ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. In troduc t ion1 Some of the most critical international mone­ tary developments of the entire period since World War II occurred during 1971. At the same time, the impressive expansion in world trade in recent years continued but at a slower pace with much of the impact felt—especially with respect to export prices—by the primary producing coun­ tries other than petroleum exporting countries. In terms of total value, the 1970-71 increase in world trade as measured by exports amounted to 12 per cent, compared with an increase of almost 15 per cent from 1969 to 1970. The difference resulted wholly from a slowdown in the rate of increase in the volume of world trade. The aver­ age rise in foreign trade prices—almost 6 per cent from 1970 to 1971—was as large as that of the previous year. For primary producing countries other than those exporting petroleum (the value of which was raised sharply by negotiated price increases), the 1970-71 rise in total export value is estimated to have been on the order of 7 per cent. Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, the international monetary system became more and more affected by payments imbalances, in part resulting from growing international capital move­ ments. In addition, in several major industrial countries situations of fundamental disequilibrium emerged and were not corrected, or were cor­ rected only after a period of long delay, by changes in par values. In 1971, weaknesses in the balance of payments adjustment process cul­ minated in a series of far-reaching measures. In May 1971 Germany and the Netherlands informed the Fund that they would not ensure that the rates for exchange transactions involving the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, respectively, within their territories would be con­ fined within the margins hitherto observed. Accordingly, the rates for exchange transactions involving the two currencies were allowed to float. The Canadian dollar had been floating since May 1970. At the same time that Germany and the Netherlands took the above steps, Switzerland and Austria revalued their currencies. On August 15, the United States announced that it would no 1 The period under review in this Report covers 1971 and the early part of 1972. longer, for the settlement of international trans­ actions, buy and sell gold freely under the second sentence of Article IV, Section 4(b) of the Articles of Agreement of the International Mone­ tary Fund and that a 10 per cent surcharge was temporarily being imposed on all dutiable imports not subject to mandatory quantitative limitations. Proposed were an accelerated investment tax credit to promote increased employment, to be effective from August 15, 1971 but not to be applicable to imported goods, and legislation providing for a new corporate entity that would afford to U. S. exporters more favorable tax treat­ ment. These proposals subsequently were enacted as the Job Development Investment Credit and the Domestic International Sales Corporation (D ISC ). In view of the developments that followed the action by the United States, the Fund called the attention of all its members to their undertakings under Article IV, Section 4(a) and requested that each member advise the Fund promptly and in detail of the exchange measures and practices applied in its territories. It was felt that, in general, the situation did not justify actions that would lead to new discriminatory currency arrangements, multiple currency practices, or restrictions on the making of payments and trans­ fers for current international transactions. When a member believed that it had an especially strong justification for the introduction of any such prac­ tices, the Fund was, of course, prepared to consult with the member. On October 1, 1971 the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund adopted a Resolution that called on members of the Fund to collaborate with the Fund and with each other in order, as promptly as possible, to (a) establish a satisfactory structure of exchange rates, maintained within appropriate margins, for the currencies of members, together with the reduc­ tion of restrictive trade and exchange practices, and (b) facilitate resumption of the orderly con­ duct of the operations of the Fund. Members were also called upon to collaborate with the Fund and with each other in efforts to bring about (a) a reversal of the tendency in present circumstances to maintain and extend restrictive trade and exchange practices, and (b) satisfactory arrange­ ments for the settlement of international trans- 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS actions which would contribute to the solution of the problems involved in the present international monetary situation. The Resolution also requested the Executive Directors of the Fund, inter alia, to make reports to the Board of Governors without delay on the measures necessary or desirable for the improvement or reform of the international monetary system (Resolution No. 26-9, adopted October 1, 1971). On December 18, the Ministers and Governors of the Group of T e n2 and Switzerland agreed on a new pattern of exchange rates among their curren­ cies. The Canadian dollar continued to float. After the agreement had been reached among the Group of Ten, the Executive Directors of the Fund adopted a decision "Central Rates and Wider Margins —A Temporary Regime" (Decision No. 3463-(7/126), December 18, 1971). On December 20, the United States eliminated the 10 per cent import surcharge and extended the provisions of the Job Development Investment Credit to imported goods. During the period August 15-December 18, 1971, of 118 member countries and three non- metropolitan territories of member countries, 73 had continued to apply their former fixed rates for the U. S. dollar (some, however, had slightly widened their margins for that currency). That group included certain countries that had intro­ duced a secondary free market (notably 15 countries of the French Franc Area) and 16 countries that had repegged their currencies from sterling to the U. S. dollar. The currencies of the remaining 48 countries and territories were float­ ing against the U. S. dollar, 20 as a result of having remained pegged to sterling and 26 independently. Of these 48 countries and terri­ tories, 31 had had an effective par value on August 15, 1971 in the sense that the main commercial rate was based on the par value. Despite the crisis in the international monetary system in 1971, there was only limited resort to increased use of exchange restrictions other than those resulting from multiple currency practices. Such restrictions as were adopted were primarily related to the slowing down of the growth of international trade, depressed or declining prices of primary products, and individual circumstances of some countries. 2 Countries which participate in the General Arrange­ ments to Borrow, viz., Belgium, Canada, France, Ger­ many, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Sweden, United King­ dom, and United States. 2 There was, however, a marked movement toward increased use of multiple currency prac­ tices. Such practices were in some cases adopted as a means of influencing capital movements. They were also adopted, or their use increased, by several developing countries encountering balance of payments difficulties resulting from depressed export prices and/or expansionary domestic policies. In August, France introduced a dual market system, with an official market (in principle, for imports and exports, related inci­ dental expenses, and current official transactions) separated by exchange control supervision from a "financial" market (for all other transactions, including after October 20, foreign securities). The action by France was followed with minor modifications by all Operations Account coun­ tries 3 of the French Franc Area. In September, the Netherlands created a separate market for guilders representing the proceeds of listed guilder bonds sold by nonresidents to residents and required that further bond purchases by nonresidents be financed with such funds. Developing countries that adopted or increased their use of multiple currency practices included Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, and Ghana, among others. As mentioned above, after agreement on the realignment of their currencies was reached by the Group of Ten in December, the Executive Board of the Fund took a decision establishing a tem­ porary regime of central rates and wider margins, and indicating the practices that members may follow in the existing circumstances consistently with their obligations under Article IV, Section 4(a) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and the Resolution of the Board of Governors referred to above. The intention of the decision was to enable members to observe the purposes of the Fund to the maximum extent possible during the period preceding the assumption of effective par values especially by the principal industrial countries, with appropriate margins in accordance with the Articles. A member which temporarily did not maintain rates based on a par value for its cur­ rency within the appropriate margins could com­ municate to the Fund as a central rate the new exchange value for its currency resulting from 3 Countries whose institutes of issue maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Ma l i, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A IN D E V E L O P M E N TS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACT ICES realignment, and could permit the exchange rates for its currency to move within margins of 2XA per cent on either side of the par value or the central rate. Moreover, as long as a member took appro­ priate measures to maintain the exchange rates for its currency within 2XA per cent in terms of its intervention currency, it could permit the exchange rates for its currency in relation to currencies other than its intervention currency to move to a maximum of AV2 per cent. As provided in the decision, if a member of certain currency areas, e.g., the Sterling and French Franc Areas, main­ tained its currency within margins of 1 per cent of its intervention currency, it would be observing its obligations under the temporary regime. The decision also reiterated the Fund's position with respect to spreads between buying and selling rates for spot transactions involving a member's currency and the currency of other members, i.e., if a member establishes or tolerates a spread of more than 2 per cent it thereby introduces a multiple currency practice. In addition, members may not permit, under the decision, differential buying or selling rates for spot transactions, e.g., for different currencies or classes of commodities, or for current as against capital transfers, that the Fund regards as inconsistent with exchange stability. After the decision was adopted, members noti­ fied the Fund of any action taken by them with respect to par values, central rates, and wider margins. Many members decided that they would leave unchanged the par values of their currencies in terms of gold. Some members proposed changes in their par values while considerably more mem­ bers communicated central rates for their curren­ cies. Some 47 members indicated that they were availing themselves of the wider margins under the provisions of the decision establishing a tem­ porary regime of central rates and wider margins. During 1971, 3 countries—Fiji, Oman, and Western Samoa—became members of the Fund, raising total membership to 120 countries at the end of the year. This Report, and in particular the following sections, centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have direct balance of pay­ ments implications, such as import deposits, import surcharges, and measures to stimulate exports. II. Ma in Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Trade and Payments Restrictions a. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments The turbulence that occurred in the exchange markets in 1971 did not lead to any significant increase in quantitative restrictions on imports. Indeed, some industrialized countries reduced them. These countries also continued the process of liberalizing imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance ( C M E A ) .4 However, certain industrial countries took measures designed to reduce the flow of imports. The most significant such developments were those taken by the United States on August 15, 1971, as mentioned in the Introduc­ tion. Denmark imposed a temporary surcharge of 10 per cent on commodities other than essential foodstuffs and raw materials. In addition, a num­ ber of industrial countries increased their resort to negotiated agreements to limit specified exports to them by their trading partners. These are of particular importance with respect to exports of textiles to the United States from the Republic of China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Korea, and also for exports of steel and steel products from the countries of the European Economic Community ( E E C )5 and Japan. Among other developed countries, New Zealand liberalized a further 200 import items and announced that over a five-year period quantita­ tive restrictions would be almost wholly eliminated. South Africa, however, intensified its quantitative restrictions. Although most of the developing countries felt constrained by balance of payments considera­ tions and did not relax import restrictions to any significant extent, a number of them, including Cameroon, Colombia, the Republic of China, the Khmer Republic, Singapore, and the Syrian Arab Republic, relaxed quantitative restrictions on imports. In the Khmer Republic, quantitative restrictions were abolished as part of a reform of the exchange and trade system that was intro- 4 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 5 The members of the E EC are Belgium, France, Ger­ many, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS duced in October, but to expedite aid utilization an exclusive import list was set up for certain essential commodities that might be imported only when financed with foreign aid. Countries which have tightened controls in respect of certain categories of imports or pay­ ments for imports during the course of the year included Algeria, Argentina, Ceylon, Chile, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mexico, Peru, Tanzania, and Uganda. In some cases the tightening of con­ trols took the form of prohibitions while in others there were additions to lists of commodities requiring prior approval. Argentina prohibited temporarily the opening of letters of credit for all imports. Ceylon raised from 6 months to 12 months the minimum deferred payments terms for private sector imports of specified commodities. Nigeria introduced a system of 90-day and 180- day deferred import payments. Payments arrears with respect to imports and invisibles were eliminated in Haiti in 1971 and with respect to imports in Nigeria in early 1972. The Sudan and the Syrian Arab Republic adopted programs to reduce their payments arrears. Other countries which continue to have such arrears include the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Para­ guay, and Uruguay. Costa Rica, which had been free of arrears, incurred new ones. D iscr im inat ion against member countries through quantitative import restrictions appears, on balance, to have been reduced again, as reli­ ance on bilateral trade and payments arrange­ ments was reduced further. In addition a number of member countries have ceased to invoke Article X X XV of the G A TT in respect of Japan or have eased the import licensing treatment accorded to Japan. Discrimination was reduced also owing to the relaxation by some member countries of re­ strictions on imports from state trading countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. An important development in commercial policy was the introduction of generalized tariff preferences on selected commodities (generally manufactures and semimanufactures) originating in developing countries by the E EC countries, Denmark, Finland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Australia further expanded the coverage of its existing duty preferences for developing countries. b. Restrictions on Current Invisibles During 1971 France on several occasions increased the exchange allocations for tourist 4 travel, and since January 1, 1972 all bona fide requests for travel exchange are being granted. A number of Operations Account countries also relaxed their restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for tourist travel. Japan, which did not restrict travel exchange, again increased the automatic allocations which authorized banks may make available without reference to the Bank of Japan. In New Zealand, the Reserve Bank announced that all reasonable requests for exchange for bona fide travel purposes would be granted. Restrictions on travel exchange were intro­ duced or tightened in several member countries. These included Argentina, Chile, Tanzania, Uganda, Uruguay, and Zambia. Argentina reduced allocations for foreign travel selectively and it and Uruguay limited the amount of foreign banknotes that may be exported as part of the total of foreign exchange available for travel pur­ poses. Panama and Peru imposed taxes on for­ eign travel, and Bolivia in 1971 temporarily levied a progressive travel tax that could go as high as $b 10,000 (about US$800) a trip depend­ ing on the number of trips a traveler made. A number of countries again revised their limits on the permitted import or export of domes­ tic currency notes, including Chile, Kenya, New Zealand, Tanzania, Uganda, and Yugoslavia. Chile subjected the importation of domestic cur­ rency notes to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement, and their exportation to export licensing procedures. In 1970 France had resumed the practice of redeeming domestic banknotes when presented to the Bank of France by banks abroad; after the creation of a dual market, France accepted such banknotes for redemption only for credit to a Financial Account, and most Opera­ tions Account countries took similar action. With respect to payments for other current invisibles, the following were some of the main developments. Argentina closed its exchange market for several days in March 1971, and then gradually opened it up again for current invisibles, but not for remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties. In September, however, persons wishing to effect such remittances were permitted to pur­ chase negotiable and exportable five-year bonds issued by the Government and denominated in U. S. dollars. The Dominican Republic increased the allowances for education abroad, and resumed the granting of exchange for family remittances and medical expenses abroad. Upper Volta and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A IN D E V E L O P M E N TS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACT ICES some other Operations Account countries increased the exchange allocations for such purposes as study abroad. The United States lifted its prohibi­ tion on financial transactions with mainland China. Among countries taking steps to restrict pay­ ments for invisibles other than travel expendi­ ture, Chile further reduced allocations for a con­ siderable number of current payments. Zaire limited the transfer abroad of earnings by foreign professionals to one half of such monthly earnings after taxes. Zambia introduced a restriction on profit and dividend remittances, limiting such remittances to an amount not exceeding 30 per cent of equity capital and provided that the 30 per cent did not exceed one half of net profits. 2. Multiple Currency Practices The August 15 measures made it impossible for some countries to observe the legal margins around par and any multiple currency practices consequent to those measures have not been included in this review. However, the Fund main­ tained the customary degree of surveillance over multiple currency practices and other measures that were at variance with members' obligations under the Articles of Agreement. Simplification of exchange rate structures took place in Ghana, the Khmer Republic, and Viet- Nam. Ghana, during the period under review, first introduced several multiple currency practices but, when devaluing its currency at the end of 1971, abolished the foreign exchange bonus scheme and the exchange taxes. Subsequently, when it informed the Fund early in 1972 that a rate less depreciated than the new par value would be applied to international transactions, no new mul­ tiple currency practices were introduced. In the Khmer Republic all multiple currency practices were eliminated and a flexible unitary rate was established, but in January 1972 a dual rate sys­ tem was introduced based on an exchange rate for aid imports and another for all other transac­ tions. Viet-Nam, which had an exchange rate structure comprising an official market and a parallel market, introduced a three-tier rate struc­ ture within the latter; this proliferation of rates was offset to some extent by the elimination of exchange taxes and exchange subsidies. Among countries that modified existing multi­ ple rate systems, Chile introduced additional rates in the banking and brokers' exchange markets and increased existing exchange taxes in the latter. Uruguay introduced a new multiple exchange rate system by imposing and gradually increasing cer­ tain "commissions" on foreign exchange sold to the public; there also were many changes in exchange taxes on exports. In March 1972 the rate structure was considerably simplified, with a greatly depreciated official rate for the U. S. dol­ lar. Venezuela, while maintaining its multiple currency rate structure, appreciated each of the effective exchange rates slightly in terms of the U. S. dollar. Turkey continued to apply a special buying rate to the export proceeds of certain tra­ ditional agricultural commodities. Argentina, Costa Rica, and Ecuador each rein­ troduced a secondary exchange market. The Argentine free market rate initially was confined to financial transactions, but soon was used also as a mixing rate for trade transactions. Among countries operating a flexible exchange rate policy and maintaining multiple currency practices, Brazil and Colombia continued to depreciate their currencies from time to time, without otherwise changing their multiple rate systems. In the Philippines, where the rate had been stabilized in late September 1970, the peso appreciated slightly in mid-1971; later in the year, however, it depreciated to its previous level. Korea, another developing country with a flexible rate policy, does not have multiple currency practices. The rate for the won depreciated in the first half of 1971 and ir the first half of 1972. Following the August 15 measures, France, as indicated above, established a dual exchange market and the Operations Account countries took similar action. In October, the security currency market in France was merged into the financial franc market. The operation of the investment currency market in the United Kingdom did not undergo much change during the period under review, but in March 1972 important changes in capital con­ trols were announced which affected, inter alia, the method of financing certain direct investments abroad that might previously have had to be made with investment currency (see section 5, Measures Affecting Capital, below). The Netherlands created a security currency market in September by prescribing that nonresidents could acquire listed guilder bonds only with the proceeds from the sale of such bonds by nonresidents to resi­ dents. The O-guilder in this so-called bond circuit has consistently been at a small premium. There were two major changes in the operation of the exchange markets in the Belgium-Luxem- 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS bourg Economic Union (BLEU ). With effect from May 11, 1971, the official exchange market and the free market were separated completely and the governing regulations were modified so that foreign currencies, which previously could not go to a discount in the free market, henceforth could go to a discount as well as to a premium in that market. On August 23 the B L EU floated the franc rate in the official market. At the same time, the B L EU and the Netherlands began a "joint float"; under this policy (relating in the B L EU to the official market only) the rates for their currencies were not allowed to deviate from the previous cross-parities by more than 1.5 per cent in either direction, the same maximum deviation previously permitted under the margins notified by these countries under the European Monetary Agree­ ment ( E M A ). This policy was continued after the general realignment of currencies which took place after December 18, 1971. 3. Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports of deposit for countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association ( L A F T A ). b. Import Surcharges The most significant development concerning import surcharges in 1971 was the temporary imposition by the United States on August 15 of a 10 per cent surcharge on all dutiable imports not subject to mandatory quantitative restrictions, and its subsequent removal on December 20, 1971. Denmark late in 1971 imposed a temporary surcharge of 10 per cent on commodities other than essential foodstuffs and raw materials. Among developing countries, Ghana, when devaluing its currency at the end of 1971, abol­ ished the temporary surcharges introduced in 1970. On the other hand, Argentina, India, and Zambia introduced import surcharges; the Argen­ tine ones were eliminated in early 1972. Hon­ duras introduced special surcharges on imports from Japan, and Yugoslavia, after reducing its temporary import surcharge from 5 per cent to 2 per cent, raised it again to 6 per cent. a. Advance Import Deposits c. Export Incentives and Export Taxes A number of developing countries, including Colombia and El Salvador, acted to facilitate imports by relaxing their advance import deposits. Iran lowered the advance import deposit rate on certain food imports from 100 per cent to 15 per cent. Israel at the beginning of 1971 reduced the advance import deposit rate from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value, and a year later to 30 per cent. Spain first reduced and then abol­ ished its advance deposit requirement. Turkey lowered certain guarantee deposit rates in Janu­ ary 1971. Yugoslavia in the same month abol­ ished the advance import deposit requirements, which had been reduced previously on two occasions. Other countries increased their reliance on advance import deposits to restrain imports. Chile subjected additional imports to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement when imported by the private sector, and then by granting individual exemptions from the requirement used it as a sub­ stitute for import licensing controls. Korea intro­ duced advance import deposits on imports of raw materials that were also produced locally. Advance import deposits were introduced in Uganda in November 1971, and Uruguay tripled its prepay­ ment deposit requirement for some imports in September 1971, while retaining preferential rates 6 Late in 1971 the United States introduced a DISC Export Tax Deferral Program, whereby companies adopting DISC (Domestic Interna­ tional Sales Corporation) status would be granted tax deferral privileges on 50 per cent of their gross export income. The United Kingdom per­ mitted authorized banks to make foreign currency loans for specified trade purposes without a minimum repayment period to exporters, mer­ chants, and firms authorized to trade on com­ modity exchanges. In addition, U. K. exporters tendering for overseas contracts were invited to apply for forward exchange cover in respect of a tender or of foreign components included in a tender price. The rate charged on medium-term and long-term finance for exports other than ships was reduced. A number of industrial countries, including Japan, took steps to prevent the unduly early surrender of foreign exchange proceeds from exports in the expectation of exchange rate changes. France required that export proceeds when sold before the due date had to be sold in the financial franc market. The surrender require­ ments for export proceeds were suspended in Norway. In view of the wider fluctuations of exchange rates, certain industrial countries, such as France and Germany, took steps to provide ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A IN D E V E L O P M E N TS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACT ICES exchange rate guarantees to exporters for exchange rate risks that could not be covered by existing banking facilities. A number of developing countries, including Argentina and Brazil, further modified or extended their fiscal export incentives. Mexico introduced a provision that manufacturers were entided to full remission of duties on imported inputs and full reimbursement of the indirect domestic federal taxes levied when a product was exported. Panama granted exemption from profit and property taxes to enterprises manufacturing solely for export. The Syrian Arab Republic used its Fund for the Development of Industrial Exports to subsidize exports of cotton textiles. Uruguay revoked the 14 per cent export tax; export retention rates were reduced, and tax refunds for some exports were revised upward. Among other measures designed to encourage exports, Argentina introduced a preferential mix­ ing rate for "promoted" exports at the time the dual market was established but eliminated it when the country devalued the peso in March 1972. In Egypt, proceeds of certain agricultural exports received a 35 per cent exchange premium. Ceylon introduced import duty rebates for speci­ fied industrial exports. 4. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Further progress has been achieved in the elimination of bilateral payments arrangements by member countries. Spain terminated its pay­ ments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Mexico, Morocco, Paraguay, Poland, and Yugoslavia. Austria placed its trade with Bulgaria, Czecho­ slovakia, Hungary, Poland, and the U. S. S. R. on a convertible currency basis, leaving Rumania as the only country with which it still maintains a bilateral payments arrangement. Yugoslavia abol­ ished the bilateral payments arrangements with Guinea, Ma l i, Spain, and Turkey; and Ma li ter­ minated its arrangement with Bulgaria. The Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union and the Netherlands terminated their last remaining pay­ ments agreements, those with the U. S. S. R. Thus, 7 bilateral payments arrangements between mem­ bers were terminated during the period under review, leaving some 50 in force, compared with about 80 at the end of 1967. In addition, more than 10 bilateral payments arrangements with nonmember countries were abolished, but these still number over 200. Fund members have become increasingly aware of the disadvantages of bilateral payments arrangements. For some time now, there has also been growing evidence that nonmember countries are turning away from an earlier preference for strict bilateral clearing arrangements in international settlements. 5. Measures Affecting Capital In the turbulent exchange market conditions prevailing in mid-1971, measures to control capi­ tal movements were widespread among industri­ alized countries. A good many of these measures were revoked or eased after the December cur­ rency realignment, but a second wave of controls occurred early in 1972. In most cases, the meas­ ures were designed to limit an undesired accumu­ lation of foreign exchange reserves and to reduce the domestic monetary effects of inflows of exchange. This often had the effect of turning around the operation of exchange control, which previously had aimed primarily at preventing unauthorized capital outflows; where such a reversal occurred, there usually was also a relaxa­ tion of restraints over capital outflows, but the easing tended to follow with a certain time lag or to be limited to specified types of transactions. Among the measures taken to offset the domestic monetary effects of inward capital movements, the majority have affected the operations of domestic banking systems, but measures of a monetary nature have also been taken in the non- banking sector, e.g., by restricting the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic money market paper or bonds. Another instrument employed for dis­ couraging excessive capital inflows has been the dual exchange market (see section 2, Multiple Currency Practices, above), and some countries have relaxed exchange restrictions or other con­ trols to stimulate outflows, e.g., by admitting for­ eign bond issues on the domestic capital market. The controls introduced over the banking sys­ tem have comprised direct limitations on the acceptance of nonresident deposits by banks and other financial institutions and, more generally, on the banks' external positions. Among the countries which either introduced or modified such controls were Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, France, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. In France, banks were instructed on August 3 to prevent any deterioration in their overall net external position in francs and foreign currency; the banks were therefore led to verify the purpose underlying purchases of francs against foreign currencies, so as to ensure that the 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS transaction was not motivated by speculative rea­ sons. In September, the rule prohibiting banks from maintaining a positive net foreign currency position in excess of that of September 3, 1968 was rescinded, and on December 20 the limita­ tions on the banks' net external liabilities were revoked. Shordy before the currency realignment, nonresidents were temporarily prevented from purchasing French short-term securities. Controls on banks' net external positions were also applied in Italy where banks were required to maintain a balanced net position after September 15. Japan restricted external borrowing by commercial banks. The United Kingdom prohibited financial nonbanking institutions and local authorities from accepting further sterling deposits or loans from non-Sterling Area residents, and temporarily pre­ vented nonresidents from purchasing certain domestic securities. In Austria, credits to schil­ ling accounts resulting from the conversion of foreign exchange by nonresidents which did not arise from current transactions were made sub­ ject to the prior approval of the central bank; the "gentlemen's agreement" of August 1971, designed to prevent foreign borrowing by banks, was extended in February 1972, when banks were in addition requested to appeal to their large cus­ tomers not to borrow abroad. In the period March-September, Belgium required banks to exercise restraint in undertaking operations that were likely to increase their net foreign debtor positions; in March 1972, the external position of banks in Belgium and Luxembourg was made sub­ ject to limitation. Also in March 1972, the Netherlands forbade the placement of guilders on nonresident time deposit accounts or the renewal of such accounts, as well as the payment of inter­ est on nonresident sight deposits, both, however, subject to a limited exemption for private indi­ viduals. Capital controls directed at operations of domestic banking systems have also included indirect measures. These have been designed to reduce the profitability of utilizing foreign funds domestically and to limit the incentives that banks could offer to attract foreign capital. Among such measures, changes in reserve requirements for banks' external liabilities and restrictions on the maintenance of interest-bearing deposit accounts by nonresidents were the most important. Selec­ tive reserve requirements against banks' liabilities to nonresidents have been either intensified or introduced in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, 8 and Spain. In Belgium, banks had to make special deposits in Belgian francs for the amount by which they exceeded the limit fixed on their net foreign debtor position. France raised the reserve requirement against nonresident franc deposits in May and again in August 1971; in Germany the special reserve requirement applied since Decem­ ber 1970 against increases in banks' liabilities to nonresidents was raised in June 1971 to twice the requirement ratios set for residents' deposes; moreover, when reserve requirements against banks' liabilities to residents were reduced by 10 percentage points later in the year, the require­ ments applicable to the banks' liabilities to non­ residents were left unchanged. In France, com­ mercial banks discontinued, with effect from August 11, payment of interest on nonresident- held term deposits of less than 90 days denomi­ nated in francs; previously, only sight deposits did not bear interest. The prohibition was rescinded after realignment. Partial or complete suspension of interest payments on balances in nonresident accounts was also introduced in Germany and the Netherlands in May, in Spain in October, and in Italy in December. The United Kingdom pro­ hibited payment of interest on any increases accruing after August 31 in nonresidents' balances on external sterling accounts; certain categories of such accounts were subsequently exempted from this provision and the prohibition was lifted on December 20. Some member countries have imposed direct limitations on the domestic utilization of nonresi­ dent funds as a disincentive to the attraction of further amounts of foreign capital. The United Kingdom took similar measures in January 1971 primarily to restrict domestic credit, but during the last few months of 1971 the conversion of foreign currency into sterling on a swap basis was also severely restricted. Some countries have also introduced capital controls of a monetary nature that are focused primarily on the nonbanking sector. They included France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. France took measures to restrict the acquisition by nonresidents of domes­ tic short-term securities effective only from December 3 to December 20, and also to limit long-term borrowing abroad. Germany required nonresidents to obtain approval from the mone­ tary authorities for the purchase of domestic money market paper. Moreover, in December 1971 a Cash Deposit Law was enacted which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A IN D E V E L O P M E N TS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACT ICES aimed at discouraging capital inflows by large companies in order to strengthen the effectiveness of domestic monetary policy. The Law enables the Government to require enterprises to make interest-free deposits of up to 50 per cent of their specified outstanding foreign liabilities and the requirement may be made retroactive. These powers were invoked on March 1, retroactive to January 1, 1972, and the rate of deposit was set at 40 per cent. In France, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom temporary prohibitions were introduced on the acquisition by nonresi­ dents of specified domestic securities, including treasury bills and other short-term paper. Among the industrialized countries, Belgium- Luxembourg, France, and the Netherlands used dual exchange markets as a means of stemming capital inflows (see section 2, Multiple Currency Practices, above). Among the countries which relaxed exchange controls or transaction controls to stimulate capi­ tal outflows were France, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. France increased the standard allocations for various capital transfers, such as those of emigrants' assets, and authoriza­ tion of direct investments abroad became con­ siderably more liberal. Furthermore, the prior declaration requirement for direct investments in or from E EC countries was abolished early in 1971, when such investments remained subject to exchange control only. Foreign bond issues had not been authorized for a number of years, but in 1971 the authorities allowed bond issues by the Inter-American Development Bank and the Euro­ pean Coal and Steel Community to be placed on the French capital market. Also an incentive scheme was introduced chiefly for new direct investment in the Operations Account countries; in the course of 1971 it was announced that, sub­ ject to the negotiation of bilateral investment agreements, the incentives would also apply to investments in Mauritius and Zaire. Japan relaxed restrictions on long-term capital outflows of resident-owned funds, particularly in the form of direct investment purchases of foreign securities by institutional investors as well as by other resi­ dents, and the acquisition of real estate abroad by residents. Also for the first time certain foreign loan issues were permitted on the Japanese capital market, beginning with international institutions. At the same time, in conformity wtih previous liberalization plans, restrictions on long-term inward direct investment were further relaxed. In Apr il 1972, the Netherlands gave permission to Netherlands institutional investors to lend to non­ residents on the market for privately placed loans. The United Kingdom announced a time schedule for the progressive dismantling of the controls over portfolio and direct investment in E EC countries as well as personal capital transfers to the Community. In March 1972 a number of capital controls were abolished or relaxed. The program of voluntary restraint on direct and port­ folio investment in the more developed countries of the overseas Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South Africa) was terminated. Official exchange rather than other methods of finance (for example, involving the use of the more expensive investment currency) was granted, subject to a limit of £ 1 million a project a year, for all new approved direct investments in mem­ ber countries of the E EC and in Denmark and Norway. Unlimited sterling borrowing in the U. K. market was normally to be allowed (a) by U. K. companies controlled by residents of the eight indicated countries; (b) by U. K. companies in which any nonresidents have less than a con­ trolling interest; and (c) for new expenditure in development areas and similar regions, by U. K. companies controlled by any nonresidents. The U. K. Treasury ceased to grant exchange rate guarantees on loans taken up outside the Sterling Area by public sector bodies. Denmark facilitated capital inflows by relaxing restrictions on nonresident purchases in the domes­ tic bond market and by easing resident access to foreign borrowing, and early in 1972, Sweden eased the restrictions on purchases by residents of Swedish securities held abroad, as well as those on exports of capital by emigrants. The United States maintained its mandatory foreign direct investment controls and the volun­ tary program for the restraint of foreign credits by banks and other financial institutions. On Apr il 1, 1971, the Interest Equalization Tax was extended to March 31, 1973. The coverage of the voluntary program was narrowed when export credit was, late in 1971, exempted from the ceil­ ings. In December 1971, direct investors who had foreign claims in excess of the amount permitted under the ceiling for 1971, as established under the mandatory program, were permitted to post­ pone until the end of February 1972 the repatria­ tion of these funds to comply with the program ceilings for 1971. The developing countries, on the whole, did ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS not relax restrictions on capital outflows. The operation of existing dual market structures and of newly introduced or modified multiple cur­ rency practices in many instances had the effect of making any permitted outflows more expensive; in a number of these cases the outflows were limited essentially to nonresident-owned capital. The extension of exchange control to formerly exempt areas (see below) has involved a widen­ ing in the geographical scope of existing restric­ tions on capital outflows. As regards inflows, a number of developing countries have again found it necessary to impose limitations on the accept­ ance of suppliers' credit, while others increased their reliance on foreign financing of their imports, e.g., by prescribing the use of suppliers' credit for specified minimum periods. A few developing countries, such as Iran, Ivory Coast, Mexico, Singapore, and Venezuela, have successfully placed public sector bonds or notes in the Euro­ dollar or Asian-dollar markets. In Singapore the size of the Asian-dollar market grew sufficiently in 1971 for the authorities to allow two Asian- dollar note or bond issues. Two Sterling Area countries, Guyana and Jamaica, extended exchange control to the rest of the Sterling Area, and the Libyan Arab Repub­ lic ceased to be a member of the Sterling Area. Early in 1971 Tanzania extended exchange con­ trol to Kenya and Uganda, following similar action by the latter countries in 1970. 6. Gold Regulations governing nonofficial transactions in gold remained unchanged in most countries. In the United Kingdom, the restrictions on the buying, holding, and selling of gold coins that had been imposed during 1966 were revoked, and the ban on the use of gold for making medallions was lifted. Ireland also allowed residents to buy, hold, and sell gold coins. Austria eased further the liberal regulations on dealing in gold coins by residents and allowed travelers to export gold coins up to a specified weight or value. The United States took steps to prevent a domestic futures market for gold coins from being estab­ lished. Trading in gold coins was suspended by Mexico in August 1971 but was resumed early in 1972. III. Regional Arrangements During the period of review, the European Economic Community entered into a number of 10 new agreements with associated and third coun­ tries. On January 1, 1971 the Second Yaounde Convention with the African and Malagasy Asso­ ciated States 6 entered into force, as did the sec­ ond Association Agreement with the countries of the East African Community. On Apr il 1, 1971 the Association Agreement with Malta entered into force. An interim agreement with Turkey, which is to lead eventually to a customs union, entered into force on September 1, 1971. Important steps were taken during 19^71 toward the enlargement of the E EC to include the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, and Norway. By January 15, 1972 all outstanding issues with these countries had been settled and the four applicant countries formally signed the acts of membership on January 22, 1972. The common external tariff of the E EC became operative on January 1, 1971, together with the implementation of the fourth of the five duty reductions agreed upon in the Kennedy Round. As of July 1, 1971 the EEC 's generalized prefer­ ences for developing countries, covering manu­ factured and semimanufactured products and some processed farm goods, became effective. The preferences applied to 91 developing coun­ tries. On February 1, 1971 a common fisheries policy entered into force. The EEC 's Commission pre­ sented in February 1971 proposals for a new orientation for agricultural policy, seeking to establish a link between agricultural structures and prices. A modified version of the proposals was adopted in March 1972. In June, the adoption of complementary regulations in the dairy sector entered into force; this implied that henceforth dairy products would move freely within the E E C. The valuation of the unit of account used under the common agricultural policy presented certain problems following the exchange crises of May and August. A system of border adjustments adopted in May 1971 and elaborated early in 1972 was used as an interim solution. In the previous Report, it was noted that the Council of the E EC decided in February 1971 to move in stages toward the creation of an eco­ nomic and monetary union. The Report also made reference to the system of short-term monetary 6 Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Togo, Upper Volta, and Zaire. On September 9, 1971 Mauritius applied for accession to the Yaounde Convention. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL A R R A N G EM E N TS support set up in 1970 and to a new medium-term monetary support system which was to come into effect on January 1, 1972. Under the medium- term system the member states would have to con­ sult their E EC partners before seeking medium- term assistance. During the first three years credit would be granted for a maximum of two to three years but after that the period would be two to five years. The rate of interest would be halfway between that charged by the International Mone­ tary Fund and the current market rate. Progress toward a monetary union was hampered in 1971, first by the floating of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder in May, and then by the emergency measures with respect to exchange rates and capital controls that were introduced in E EC countries and elsewhere after August 15. Within the E E C, discussions centered on exchange rate margins and the desirability of capital con­ trols. In May the Council agreed to allow under certain conditions a widening of the fluctuation band of E EC currencies, and in June the Com­ mission presented a plan for measures to deal with international capital flows. On November 4, 1971 a Ministerial Conference of the E EC confirmed certain principles on which the exchange systems of the E EC countries should be based, including a return to fixed parities; it also recommended the adoption of measures to combat destabilizing capital movements. Following realignment and the Fund's decision on wider margins, the E EC resumed its efforts toward early monetary and economic integration. Discussions were held aiming at agreement on ways to limit the exchange rate fluctuations between E EC currencies by prescribing consid­ erably narrower margins than those that could result from the application of the new 2.25 per cent limits against the U. S. dollar. Related prob­ lems that were subjected to review were the modalities of intervention in the exchange markets, notably as to the currencies to be used for this purpose and the financing of support operations, and again the desirability of capital controls. On March 7, 1972 the Finance Ministers agreed on the following. a. The central banks of the E EC countries will reduce progressively the existing fluctuation mar­ gins between the currencies of the E EC while using fully the margins allowed by the Fund for the currencies of nonmember countries. By July 1, 1972 at the latest, the fluctuation band among the E EC currencies is to be reduced to 2.25 per cent or 1.125 per cent above or below their new official values. If exchange rates for E EC currencies reach the fluctuation limits within the narrow band of 2.25 per cent, the central banks will inter­ vene in E EC currencies. The intervention will be in U. S. dollars if the rate of the dollar on the currency market concerned reaches the fluctua­ tion limits authorized by the Fund. Prior agree­ ment among the E EC central banks will be required for any intervention inside the 4.5 per cent band permitted for the U. S. dollar. The central banks will settle debts resulting from operations in the currencies of the E EC within a period of one month but this period may be extended if experience shows it to be necessary. The method of settlement will depend on the structure of the debtor country's monetary reserves. b. The EEC 's Monetary Committee and the Committee of Central Bank Governors are to report by June 30, 1972 on the organization and functions of a European monetary cooperation fund to coordinate central bank market interven­ tion and harmonize reserve policies. c. Within the Council of Ministers of the E E C, a coordinating group of high-ranking national and commission officials will be set up for the coordi­ nation of short-term economic and financial policies. The Council on March 21, 1972 confirmed this agreement and also adopted the proposals made by the Commission for the regulation of short-term capital flows and the neutralization of their impact on E EC economies. Members would accordingly be enabled to regulate short-term money market investment by nonresidents, to control international borrowing operations other than those in support of commercial transactions, and to introduce obligatory reserve requirements, in particular in respect of nonresident-owned holdings of E EC currencies. The Council Resolu­ tion of March 21 was implemented on Apr il 24, 1972, when the member countries began to apply narrower margins for dealing in each other's currencies. Following the December currency realignment, the E EC and the United States pursued their dis­ cussions regarding immediate and longer-term trade matters. In February 1972 agreement was reached regarding wheat, feedgrains, and citrus fruit. With regard to the first two items, the E EC agreed to augment its stocks of wheat and to operate its system of export payments on grains 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS so as not to divert trade in its favor, while the United States agreed to stockpile 10 per cent of its production of grains and to withhold additional land from wheat and grain production. With regard to citrus fruit, the E EC agreed on a reduc­ tion of duty on a number of items. It was also agreed to initiate and support a comprehensive review of trade matters. Furthermore, the United States and the E EC agreed to call for a multi­ lateral review of trade matters, to take place in 1973 within the framework of the G A T T. This move was supported by a similar joint statement by Japan and the United States. Developments in the European Free Trade Association ( E F T A )7 were dominated by the negotiations, first for accession to the E EC by the United Kingdom and by Denmark, Ireland, and Norway, and then for special agreements with the E EC by those E F TA members that are not candidates for accession to the E E C. Within E F T A, the examination of nontariff barriers was continued, and three new agreements to end such obstacles to trade in specified categories of goods were concluded during the period July 1970- June 1971. None of these agreements is intended to be limited to E F TA countries. One of the major preoccupations of E F TA is how to pre­ serve free trade between the present E F TA coun­ tries even after some of them join the E E C. The Council of Ministers for Asian Economic Cooperation at their meeting in Kabul in Decem­ ber 1970 had called for the establishment of special committees to pursue trade and monetary cooperation in the countries of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East ( E C A F E ). Pursuant to this, the Preparatory Committee for the Establishment of an Asian Clearing Union was convened in March 1971 and adopted a Draft Agreement for the Asian Clearing Union. The Intergovernmental Committee on Trade met in November 1971 and studied the scope for con­ cessions in the context of regional trade expan­ sion. It agreed to meet again at some future date to consider further the question of trade conces­ sions. In the East African Community, Tanzania, in an effort to stem the decline in its foreign exchange reserves, imposed restrictions on capital exports, 7 The present members are Austria, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. (The United Kingdom has given notice of ter­ mination of its membership with effect from Decem­ ber 31, 1972.) Finland is linked to E F TA by the Finland- E F TA agreement. 12 including the export of its currency notes, to the other two members, Kenya and Uganda. Similar measures were adopted in the same month by Kenya, thus effectively suspending the free move­ ment of capital within the East African Commu­ nity. The range of functions exercised by the three central banks was broadened further. In Central America further difficulties arose regarding the operation of the Central American* Common Market ( C A C M ). At the end of 1970 Honduras had suspended its full participation in the C A CM by imposing tariffs on all imports from the region and suspending the surcharge on imports from outside the area. In response, Guate­ mala, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica imposed tariffs on all imports from Honduras, as authorized by the common market treaty. At a meeting of all members, except Honduras, a Normalization Commission was created to settle certain problems concerning trade in staples and to prepare pro­ posals for restoring the full operation of the Com­ mon Market. At its meeting in October 1971 agreement was reached on the specific trade prob­ lems and on a formula to resume free trade. On May 1, 1971 British Honduras became a member of the Caribbean Free Trade Associa­ tion ( C A R I F T A ) .8 At the Ninth Ministerial Meeting of the Council of Ministers of C A R I F TA in October 1971, the question of a common external tariff and the harmonization of fiscal incentives were discussed but no agreement was reached. In the Andean Group 9 a foreign investment code was ratified and became effective on July 1, 1971. Under this code a common policy is estab­ lished for the treatment of foreign capital, the import of technology, patents, trademarks, and the repatriation of profits, royalties, and interest. The new investment code has been ratified by all the member countries except Colombia, where it was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. In the Latin American Free Trade Association ( L A F T A )10 the principal activities during the period under review were those in the Andean 8 Antigua, Barbados, British Honduras, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. !> Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. 10 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecua­ dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL A R R A N G EM E N TS Group that are described above. The tariff reduc­ tions negotiated in December 1970 were of very limited scope, covering only some 30 items for 1971, as compared with several hundreds in each of the previous negotiations. Free trade within L A F TA has again been hampered by the unilat­ eral imposition or tightening of import restric­ tions, the application of advance deposit require­ ments and import surcharges, and the maintenance of exchange restrictions, including those hamper­ ing travel and personal remittances. A small num­ ber of reciprocal credit agreements were added to the i n t r a -LAFTA clearing mechanism. The Council of the Central African Customs and Economic Union ( U D E A C )11 in December 1971 adopted a decision on the application of a unified investment incentives program to encour­ age expansion of existing enterprises and the establishment of new industrial projects. As of January 1, 1971 customs duties on all manufactured products of national origin were abolished within the Arab Common Market .12 The Council of the Arab Common Market called on its members to take the necessary steps to eliminate all barriers to trade among themselves. 11 Cameroon, Central African Republic, Gabon, and People's Republic of the Congo. 32 Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, and Syrian Arab Republic. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other coun­ try which was not a member of the Fund at the time this Report was written is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1971. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1972. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris­ diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec­ tion "Changes during 1971" may include refer­ ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in drafting the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1971. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value and/or the central rate and/or the official exchange rates are given, the latter usually in terms of the U. S. dollar, together with a refer­ ence to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate sys­ tems, further details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see below). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1971, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is ex­ plained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have com­ mon rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica­ tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require­ ments affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun­ tries or monetary areas, the terms of these agree­ ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international impor­ tance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by non­ residents in accounts with authorized banks. Pay­ ments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in for­ eign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require­ ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun­ tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli­ cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com­ mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require­ ment that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the spe­ cial arrangements or limitations attached to inter­ national receipts and payments in respect of capi­ tal items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Pro­ ceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum­ marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro­ vided for certain countries having a multiple cur­ rency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U. S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange cer­ tificates, etc. Under Changes during 1971, the more signifi­ cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1971 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1972 are indicated in certain surveys in footnotes to the text. * * * The individual country surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned. Prepa­ ration of this part of the Report was under the general direction of M r. J. H. C. de Looper, Advisor, Exchange and Trade Relations Depart­ ment. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHAN ISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani. The Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) charges commissions ranging from Vio of 1 per cent to v2 of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. The Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar are Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively. The official selling rate applies to certain foreign exchange payments by the Central Government. The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karakul (which is exported only to the convertible currency area), wool (except cashmere wool exported to the convertible currency area), cotton, and natural gas (which is exported only to the U. S. S. R . ); to 30 per cent of the foreign cur­ rency salaries of foreign employees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies; and to purchases of bilateral agreement currencies for maintenance in Afghanistan of embassies and state trad­ ing organizations by the respective bilateral partner countries. Exchange subsidies are applied to the official buying rate as follows: Af 3 per US$1 for export proceeds from cotton when payment is received under a bilateral payments agreement; Af 10 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of woo l; Af 25 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of cotton; and Af 20 per US$1 for pro­ ceeds from exports of karaku l. A ll other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The Afghanistan Bank maintains its operational free market selling rate for the U. S. dollar within Af 2.0 per US$1 of the daily free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 30, 1971, the free market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 78.00 buying, and Af 78.50 selling, per U S $ 1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 77.45 buying, and Af 77.95 selling, per US$ 1. The Afghanistan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their relative values to the U. S. dollar in international markets, and free market rates for the Indian rupee and Pakistan rupee that are determined by demand and supply for the currencies concerned. The Afghanistan Bank from time to time buys and sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting partly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bilateral payments agreements; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by govern­ ment commercial and industrial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for U. S. S. R. clearing dollars was Af 60.50 per US$1 on December 30, 1971, and that for mainland Ch ina clearing sterling was Af 206.20 per <£ stg. 1. On the same date, the selling rate for clearing dollars under the payments agreements w i th Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia was Af 55.50 per US $ 1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies, some of them government owned or government controlled, specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements 1 must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karaku l, woo l, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible cur­ rencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fulfillment of the commit­ ments undertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. Exchange is provided at the official rate for imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in afghanis calculated at the pre­ vailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans from 1 Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments arrangement with India under which the bulk of trade is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees with the Reserve Bank of India. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A F G H A N I S T AN commercial banks. The Afghanistan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as non­ essential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt service and other invisibles are made at the official rate. A ll other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries from which pay­ ments w i ll be received in convertible currencies. K a r a k ul is not exported to payments agreement countries. Exchange receipts from exports of karaku l, woo l, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate, irrespec­ tive of destination. The net proceeds of a ll exports other than karaku l, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the cur­ rency in which they accrue, must either be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export receipts from cotton are subject to an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 25 per US$1 for convertible currency receipts and Af 3 per US$1 for exports settled under bilateral payments agreements. Convertible cur­ rency receipts from wool exports are paid an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 10 per US$1 and those from karakul exports are paid an exchange subsidy of Af 20 per U S $ 1. Proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Th i r ty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the remaining 70 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of India, receipts over bilateral payments agree­ ment accounts from the embassies and state trading organizations of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the official rate. A ll other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. 22 Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires pr ior approval and is administered, as is domestic private investment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment L aw (February 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for five years, beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five consecutive years after approval of the invest­ ment; (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for five years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than eight years after the approval of the invest­ ment; (4) exemption from personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans wh ich con­ stitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties for ten years after the approval of the investment; and (6) mandatory purchases by govern­ ment agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where such products are substantially competitive w i th imports in price and quality. The law also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghanistan. P r inc ipal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. A ll the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Joint ventures of foreign and Afghan capital are encouraged, but no specific per­ centages of domestic participation are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not pre­ cluded by law. Gold Residents may freely import and purchase, ho ld, and sell domestically gold in any form. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the C o u n c il of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. C om­ mercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1971 March 29. The middle rate for free mainland C h i na clearing sterling was raised from Af 198 to Af 205.60 per «£ stg. 1. August 16. The Afghanistan Bank's official buying ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and selling rates and other exchange market arrange­ ments remained unchanged. September 13. The prohibition on the export of meat was terminated. December 20. The Afghanistan Bank's official buying and selling rates and other exchange market arrange­ ments remained unchanged. A F G H A N I S T AN 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of A lge r ia has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the A lge r ian D ina r, wh ich is defined as having a gold content of 0.18 gram of fine gold. The exchange rate for the French franc is a fixed rate of DA 1 = F 1.12499; this rate is applied irrespective of the exchange market for wh ich the settlement is eligible in France. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is DA 4.54729 = US $ 1. The Central Bank of A lge r ia deals in F rench francs and the other French F ranc A r ea currencies at fixed rates, free of commis­ sions or charges. Buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French F ranc A r ea 1 are established by the Central Bank of A lge r ia, gen­ erally on the basis of par values and central rates. The exchange rate applicable to "agreement dollars" is the average rate for the U. S. dollar in the Paris official exchange market on the day preceding the entry on the clearing account. The Central Bank charges on its transactions in non-Franc A r ea currencies a commission ranging from 0.2 per m i ll to 1.5 per m i l l, depending on the nature of the transaction, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their correspondents in the F rench F ranc A r ea at the end of each day but they are under certain conditions permitted to hold outside the French Franc A r ea cover for documentary credits. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank of A lge r ia assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given authority to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for a ll commodities are issued on the advice of the competent ministry by the M in is t ry of Commerce and require the visa of the Cen­ tral Bank. The Office Na t ional de Commercialisation ( O N A C O ), the Office A lger ien Interprofessionnel de Cereales ( O A I C ), the Office Na t ional de Commerc ia l i­ sation des Produits V i t i-v in ico les ( O N C V ), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes ( S N T A ), the Societe Nationale d 'Ed i t ion et de Diffusion (SNED ), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie ( SN S ), the Societe Nationale de Constructions Mecaniques ( S O N A C O M E ), and other similar organizations have a monopoly over the import of a large number of commodities. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Produc t ion, le Trans­ port, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures ( S O N A T R A C H) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in A lge r ia requires approval by a 'Na t ional Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. A ll foreign borrowing requires the pr ior approval of the M in is ter of Finance. Prescription of Currency A lge r ia has traditional ties with the French F ranc A r e a, but the Central Bank of A lg e r ia does not main­ tain an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury and A lg e r ia applies exchange controls to transactions with the A r e a .2 Settlements with other countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are generally made in F rench francs. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich A lg e r ia has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree­ ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in A lge r ian dinars and others in U. S. dollars of account. A lge r ia maintains payments agreements with A lb an i a, Bulgaria, mainland Ch in a, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Gu inea, Hungary, N o r th Ko r e a, Po land, Rumania, the U. S. S. R ., and Yugos lav ia. Settlements w i th other countries are usually made through Paris in F rench francs, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. Nonresident Accounts F or residents of countries outside the F rench F ranc A rea, the regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied un t il early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Fore ign Accounts in C o n­ vertible D inars or Internal Nonresident Accoun ts. F or residents of other F rench F ranc A r ea countries, there are three types of accounts in A lge r ian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, F ranc A r ea Accounts, and F i n al Departure Accoun ts. Except as described below, a ll operations through these accounts are sub­ ject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with pr ior authorization from the Central Bank of A lge r ia. They may be credited freely for authorized imports from the 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries, and the dual market regulations introduced on August 23, 1971, are also applied to Algeria. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution French Franc A r e a, and w i th proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies; w i th proceeds from the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the F rench Franc Area; and with interest on the balances of Franc A r ea Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the credit­ ing of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in A lg e r ia to a resident of any country in the French Franc A r ea (including A l g e r i a ); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the F rench F ranc A r ea other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any person residing in A lge r ia, but not of A lge r ian nationality, who intends to leave A lge r ia for another country in the French Franc A r e a. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the interme­ diary of a notary pub l ic; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other payments. These accounts may be debited without pr ior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; outward trans­ fers require ind iv idual approval. The Central Bank of A lg e r ia maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries w i th which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of or ig in. A ll imports from bilateral pay­ ments agreement countries require a license. A ll imports from other countries also are subject to quantitative restriction, with the exception that holders of an import monopoly do not require a prior import authorization for the goods covered by their monopoly. The Govern­ ment has the monopoly over the importation of many commodities through O N A C O, O A I C, S N T A, O N C V, S N E D, SNS, S O N A T R A C H, S O N A C O M E, and other similar organizations. Imports are, in principle, licensed in accordance with an annual import program which is based on global quotas. A ll imports valued at over DA 10,000 must pr ior to the transaction be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be pre­ sented and through wh ich a ll payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, wh ich­ ever is smaller. Payments for imports may be approved A L G E R IA by, and settled through, the Postal Administration up to an import value of DA 5,000. Import licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Imports made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any k ind, from the French Franc A r ea require an authori­ zation by the M in is t ry of Finance if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. Importers may, as soon as the import has been regis­ tered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been pre­ sented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domiciled the import, open a documentary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Imports from the French F ranc A r ea are regulated by Notice N o. Z F2 of October 23, 1963, which sets out a procedure similar to the procedure applied to imports from other countries. Goods subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of a shipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles to a ll countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when sup­ porting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, (5) advertising expenses, and (6) payments relating to government transactions with foreign com­ panies. F or payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. The transfer of family remittances is suspended. A ll insurance must be concluded with A lger ian companies. Residents of other French Franc A r ea countries working in A lge r ia under the program for technical cooperation may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons or married persons having their families in A lge r ia; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence from A l g e r i a ). F or other workers from French F ranc A r ea countries who have contracts w i th employers and hold the necessary employment docu­ ments, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A L G E R IA the groups enumerated above. Residents of other coun­ tries who are employed in A lg e r ia under the program of technical cooperation are permitted to transfer abroad, 30, 50, and 100 per cent, respectively. For workers from other countries, who have contracts with employ­ ers and hold the necessary employment documents, the corresponding percentages are 25, 45, and 100. The pay­ ments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allo­ cations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educa­ tional purposes). F or residents traveling by air or sea to other coun­ tries, including the French F ranc A rea, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 100 a person a trip ( DA 50 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a va l id passport and travel documents, including the approval of the wa li of his place of domi­ c i le; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 100 a person a year for adults and DA 50 for children under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons l i v­ ing in border areas. A lge r ian workers who hold a card of the Office Na t ional de la Main-d'Oeuvre ( O N A M O) are entitled to the equivalent of DA 200 a person a trip. Foreign exchange for private business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of A lge r ia and allocations cannot exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi A r ab ia may obtain Saudi A rab ian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,500 a per­ son; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out A lge r ian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. N o n­ resident travelers may also re-export any foreign cur­ rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammuni­ tion, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are pro­ hibited regardless of destination. Some exports to the French F ranc A rea, a ll exports to countries outside the French Franc A r ea that are not included in the free export list, and a ll exports to countries with which A lge r ia has bilateral payments agreements require licenses. The export of specified products is reserved for certain state trading organizations. W i th certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. P r ior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 30 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be regis­ tered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 30 days, the exports may be regis­ tered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to 26 authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance, and registra­ tion must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports of commodities other than hydrocarbons, including those to the French Franc A r e a, must be repatriated immediately after the pay­ ment becomes due; the due date of the export contract must not be later than 60 days following shipment, except when prior authorization from the Central Bank is obtained. Those nationalized petroleum companies holding mineral rights in which the A lge r ian Gove rn­ ment has acquired majority control must repatriate to A lge r ia the fu ll proceeds from their exports of hydro­ carbons but they may place the counterpart in Conver­ tible D in ar Accounts in A lge r ia; up to 24.5 per cent of the proceeds from sales made domestically can be trans­ ferred abroad subject to authorization of the Central Bank. The other petroleum companies holding mineral rights must repatriate 50 per cent; one company, how­ ever, is subject to special arrangements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold co ins ), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter A lge r ia. Resident travelers may reim­ port A lge r ian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in A lger ian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside A lg e r i a. Cap i tal transfers to any des­ tination are subject to ind iv idual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside A lge r ia. A ll borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Ordinance N o. 66-284 of Septem­ ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or l iqu ida­ tion proceeds of invested foreign capital, and estab­ lishes that profit remittances on such investments w i ll be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. T ax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 m i l l ion may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under Ordinance N o. 66-284. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Algeria for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Cen­ tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports on behalf of authorized indus­ trial and dental users, and licenses for imports for industrial use have not been issued for some time. Under the terms of Ordinance N o. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la D i s t r i­ bution et la Transformation de l 'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux ( A G E N O R ). Th is agency is also authorized to purchase in A lg e r i a, and to ho ld, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Commerc ial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are pro­ hibited. Changes during 1971 January 2. By virtue of the budget law published on December 31, 1970 (Ordinance N o. 70-93), the last remaining tariff preferences for goods of French origin were eliminated. The import tariff henceforth comprised only the m in imum preferential tariff, for goods of E EC origin; the normal tariff, for goods originating in coun­ tries that accord A lg e r ia most-favored-nation treatment; and the general tariff, w i th rates three times those of the normal tariff, for goods originating elsewhere (including H o ng K o ng and Japan ). February 13. No te N o. 71 /1 of the M in i s t ry of Finance clarified the regulations on the sale of air, sea, and ra il passages specified by No t ice N o. 68 of Decem­ ber 18, 1970. February 17. Decree N o. 71-62 of the M in i s t ry of Commerce dissolved G A I R L A C, the only remaining "professional association," and transferred its functions to O N A C O. February 24. By Ordinances No s. 7 1 / 8 - 11 the G o v­ ernment acquired majority control of the French-owned oil companies operating in A lg e r ia and nationalized the A lge r ian oilfields. On the same date, Decree No. 71-64-66 transferred the expropriated assets to S O N A T R A C H. February 24. Instruction N o. 6 HC of the M in i s t ry of Finance required those petroleum companies holding mineral rights in which the A lge r ian Government had on February 24 acquired majority control to repatriate at least 75.5 per cent of the proceeds from their l iqu id hydrocarbon exports; repatriation had to take place in the manner prescribed by Instruction N o. 5 HC of June 23, 1970. It also provided that such companies could apply to the Central Bank for permission to trans­ fer abroad up to 24.5 per cent of the proceeds from any sales made in A lge r ia. February 24. Instruction N o. 7 HC of the M in i s t ry of Finance prescribed pr ior domiciliation for all l iqu id hydrocarbon exports by the petroleum companies referred to in Instruction N o. 6 HC and specified the A L G E R IA permitted methods of payment and of repatriation of the proceeds. March 17. Ordinance N o. 71 /62 created the Entre- prise Nationale du Commerce et d'U t i ls de Quincaillerie et d'Equipement Menager ( E N C O M ). March 17. Ordinance N o. 71 /13 created the Societe Nationale de Commercialisation et d'App l ica t ion Tech­ niques ( S ON AC A T ). March 18. Notice N o. 69 of the M in is t ry of Finance provided that the proceeds from exports other than hydrocarbons must be repatriated immediately after the due date of the export contract; and that the due date could not be later than 60 days after shipment, except with the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Notice N o. 65 of August 12, 1970 was revoked. April 9. Ordinances No s. 71 /16 and 71 /19 created Societe Nationale de Manutention ( S O N A M A) and the Societe Nationale de Travaux d'Infrastructure et Tele­ communications ( S O N A T I T E ). April 12. Ordinance N o. 71 /22 regulated o il pros­ pecting and exploitation activities by foreign companies and ruled that they must be made under minority part­ nership with S O N A T R A C H. April 13. Instruction N o. 9 HC of A p r il 9 of the M in is t ry of Finance required the petroleum companies referred to in Instruction N o. 6 HC to repatriate the fu ll proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons. C o n­ vertible D inar Accounts could freely be opened for these companies at authorized banks to enable them to meet their normal commitments in foreign currencies. These accounts were to be credited with the amounts that Instruction N o. 6 HC had allowed them to keep abroad and that now had to be repatriated. They could also be credited, subject to Central Bank authorization, with amounts up to the 24.5 per cent of proceeds of their local sales mentioned in Instruction N o. 6 H C. Convertible D inar Accounts could freely be debited at the end of each quarter for transfers of foreign currency abroad, provided that the holder had met a ll price, tax, and repatriation requirements. May 6. A M in is t ry of Finance Order authorized the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne to open nonresident savings accounts in foreign currency; these would bear interest at 4.5 per cent free of tax. May 21. The Societe Nationale Nouvelles Galeries Algeriennes ( S N N G A) was granted a monopoly over certain imports. June 4. Decree N o. 71-165 of the M in is t ry of Finance provided for certain benefits to be granted to emigrants purchasing equipment bonds. June 5. A ll imports from countries with which no bilateral payments agreement was in force henceforth required a prior import license (API) from the M in is t ry of Commerce. The requirement was applicable also to public sector imports. Furthermore, existing import restrictions were intensified. June 10. A M in i s t ry of Finance Order introduced a premium of 5 per cent of the nominal value on five- 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A L G E R IA year equipment bonds purchased by emigrants with foreign currency (10 per cent for ten-year bonds). July 6. Instruction N o. 1 0HC of the M in i s t ry of Finance modified the repatriation requirements for the proceeds from l iqu id hydrocarbon exports made by a specified company. Th is company was exempted from the restrictive measures of Instructions Nos. 6 H C, 7 H C, and 9 H C. Repatriation had to take place in U. S. dollars and not later than 30 days after shipment, on the basis of a m in imum barrel price set by the Gove rn­ ment. The company was required, however, to deposit in A lge r ia the amounts necessary to cover all its obliga­ tions. July 9. Monopo ly holders no longer required a prior import authorization for imports from nonpayments agreement countries of commodities covered by their monopoly. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /48 granted S O N A T R A CH an import monopoly for chemicals, petrochemicals, and hydrocarbon by-products. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /49 granted S N ED and S O N IC an import monopoly for paper and related products. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /50 granted S O N A R EM an import monopoly for mineral products. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /51 granted S N MC an import monopoly for construction materials and related products. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /52 granted S O N A C O ME an import monopoly for mechanical products. July 15. Ordinance N o. 71 /53 granted S O N E L EC an import monopoly for electrical goods. August 5. Ordinance N o. 71 /60 regulated the condi­ tions of employment of foreign nationals in A lge r ia. August 9. In accordance with Letter N o. 4355 of August 4 of the M in is try of Finance, Central Bank Instruction N o. 71 /57 reduced the maximum import­ able quantity of gold for dentistry purposes from 500 grams a quarter to 250 grams a quarter for each registered dental surgeon. August 13. A Central Bank Note to Au thor ized Banks abolished the E F AC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts, in which exporters and certain other recipients of foreign currency had been able to retain a portion of their exchange proceeds, and provided for the transfer of outstanding balances to resident accounts (internal accounts) in dinars. Funds for private exporters' business travel, which could previously be financed with E F AC funds henceforth had to be applied for at the Central Bank, which limited its allocations to the equivalent of DA 1,500 a person a trip. A ll other expenditures that previously could be financed with E F AC balances became subject to prior exchange con­ trol approval. August 23. The fixed exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained unchanged. Rates for other for­ eign currencies were derived from those in the financial franc market in Paris. As a result, the A lge r ian dinar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the pre-August 15 parity relationship for which had been DA 4.93706 - U S $ 1. August 30. F or accounting purposes, Central Bank C ircu lars Nos. 41 and 41 bis instructed authorized banks to screen and register a ll settlements in F rench francs between A lge r ia and France, in accordance w i th the application of the dual exchange market regula­ tions in France, either on Foreign Accounts in Francs or on F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; a corresponding separation had to be made for settlements over Foreign Accounts in D inars held by residents of France. These recording requirements d id not apply to payments and receipts in third currencies (e.g., petroleum proceeds received in U. S. dollars). The Cen tral Bank continued to settle a ll French franc transactions with residents of A lg e r ia at the fixed rate of DA 1 = F 1.12499, irre­ spective of the exchange market in which settlements took place in France; any resulting losses or profits were absorbed by the Central Bank. October 6. The Central Bank announced measures to make the exchange rates quoted for foreign banknotes and travelers checks uniform throughout A lge r ia. November 22. Letter N o. 2058 of the M in is ter of Finance exempted from technical visa the transfer applications of public and private firms dependent on the M in is t ry of Industry and Energy. December 1. The import regime was reorganized. Certain importers were granted annual import licenses for the products in which they usually traded. Holders of import monopolies no longer required pr ior import licenses for the goods concerned. The June import restrictions were eased for certain commodities not sub­ ject to an import monopoly; these could be imported by monopoly companies and private importers up to DA 1 m i l l ion a year. December 7. Imports of certain nonessential goods were prohibited; they included gold jewelry and other articles made of precious metals. December 20. The gold content of the A lge r ian dinar was maintained unchanged at 0.18 gram of fine gold per dinar. The fixed exchange rate for the French franc remained unchanged at DA 1 = F 1.12499. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became DA 4.54729 - U S $ 1. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Administration of Control A R G E N T I NA On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argen t ina w i th the Fund. H ow­ ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A ll exchange transactions take place in a dual exchange market. In principle, the commercial market covers trade transactions and trade-connected invisibles, and the financial market all other transactions. In the commercial market, the Central Bank of Argentina deals with banks and authorized institutions at the offi­ cial rate of $a 5.00 per U S $ 1, buying and selling. In the financial market the exchange rate fluctuates; on Decem­ ber 31, 1971 it was about $a 8.25 per US $ 1. The effec­ tive exchange rate for major exports and for virtually all imports is a m ix ing rate derived from the conversion of 70 per cent of the amounts concerned at the com­ mercial rate and 30 per cent at the financial rate. The effective exchange rate for promoted exports is a m ix ing rate based on conversion of 60 per cent at the commer­ cial rate and 40 per cent at the financial rate. Exports of books, newspapers, and periodicals are settled entirely through the financial market. Sales of foreign exchange to residents for travel purposes are subject to an exchange tax of $a 0.50 per U. S. dollar. Exchange transactions between banks and individuals, other than transactions in banknotes, are subject to a tax of sAo of 1 per cent. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the prevailing financial rate, sub­ ject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Fo rwa rd exchange purchases by the public are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transaction, or to cover import payments made under documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee. Swap operations must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior approval. Fo r­ ward exchange purchases covering import payments require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks. Fo rwa rd exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original maturity; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the delay). Such contracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward exchange market as a seller of U. S. dollars at a premium which at the end of 1971 was 22 per cent per annum. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment with effect from M ay 14, 1968. A ll exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this pur­ pose. These include exchange agencies and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Transactions with other countries must be settled in convertible currencies. V i r tua l ly a ll payments between Argentina and Bo l iv ia, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks con­ cerned, w i th in the framework of the L A F TA mu l t i­ lateral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Au thor ized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are fed w i th remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in A rgen­ tina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing; at the end of 1971, however, a ll imports of specified nonessential commodities were prohibited, as were a ll imports by the public sector, unless in the latter case the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Commerce was obtained. Independently of these temporary meas­ ures, goods imported by official agencies require approval by the M in is t ry of Finance if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Further­ more, a ll public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Official. Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are pro­ hibited. A ll maritime imports are subject to a tax of 10 per cent on the freight. V i r tua l ly a ll commodities, irrespective of the country of origin, are subject to an additional import surcharge of 15 per cent ad valorem. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of W> per cent payable nor­ mally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of IV2 per cent or %o of 1 per cent applicable to a ll imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest prod­ ucts; and taxes ranging from $a 0.02 to $a 0.2 a kilogram on imports of iron and steel for the Steel Program. Au thor ized banks are prohibited from opening docu­ mentary credits in respect of public sector imports (other than for those originating in L A F TA countries) 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A R G E N T I NA except with pr ior authorization from the Government. Furthermore, the Central Bank requires authorized insti­ tutions to advise it of all requested payments covering imports for which no banking documents are submitted. The same requirement applies when documents sub­ mitted do not specify the date of payment, or if the date originally indicated by the correspondent has been changed, and when bills or drafts expire more than five days pr ior to the date on which the transfer is required. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms being established in the Province of Tucuman, by certain institutions, or according to the intended use of the goods; goods imported from L A F TA coun­ tries are exempt if the goods are included in A rgen­ tina's concession lists (including the special lists for Bo l iv ia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay). The com­ modities that do not require an advance deposit include most raw materials and fuels, many capital goods, and many semimanufactured goods for the production of nontraditional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate for the com­ modity to be imported. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be undertaken: opening a letter of credit; withdrawing shipping documents from the intermediary banks; purchasing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is auto­ matically refunded after 180 days. Payments for specified capital goods imported by private firms (with the exception mainly of those in lists applicable to L A F TA countries) when valued at over US$20,000 and purchased with foreign or domes­ tic credit, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, if the importer uses exclusively his own funds. The pr ior approval of the Central Bank is required when the terms of payment are not in accord­ ance with the prescribed m in imum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equivalent of US$1 m i l­ l ion. Advance payments for imports other than capital goods are permitted only in exceptional circumstances. Payments for Invisibles W i th the exception of remittances of profits, d iv i­ dends, and royalties, and a few items of relatively minor importance, payments for invisibles may be made freely through the appropriate exchange market, in most cases the financial market. Persons and firms eligible for remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties are not granted foreign exchange but instead are permitted to purchase negotiable five-year U. S. dollar-denominated external bonds issued by the Government. These may be freely exported and imported. The sale of exchange for travel abroad is left to the discretion of authorized 30 institutions, who must take into account the reasonable­ ness of the application in light of the duration of the trip and the traveler's destination. The exchange must be purchased in the financial market and is subject to an exchange tax of $a 0.50 per U S $ 1. Of the travel allocation to bordering countries, up to the equivalent of $a 100 may be taken out in the form of foreign banknotes or travelers checks; the l im it is $a 500 for travel to other countries. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic banknotes and coins except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but m in imum export prices are established for many agri­ cultural and livestock exports as a basis for the pay­ ment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The fu ll proceeds from a ll exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the proceeds must not be less than the index value or the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Exporters of traditional commodities are required to receive the foreign exchange proceeds either before shipment or under an irrevocable documentary credit payable against shipping documents, and they must sell these proceeds w i th in 10 working days after shipment. The proceeds from promoted exports must be surren­ dered within 180 days of shipment, and payments may be received against drafts, in addition to the forms of payment prescribed for traditional exports. There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, and periodicals; their proceeds must be surrendered within 360 days of shipment and are settled entirely in the financial market. F or promoted exports, surrender takes place for 40 per cent of the proceeds at the finan­ c ial market rate, and for traditional exports, 30 per cent of the proceeds is sold in the financial market; in either case, the balance must be sold in the commercial market. Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f. o. b. sales value or on index values. The pr inc ipal export taxes range from 11 per cent to 36 per cent. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its payment. A ll exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Na t ional Institute for Ag r icu l tu ral Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products. M any exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services. This system provides financing for 80-85 per cent of their value, depending on the nature of the commodity or service, with terms of up to eight ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and one half years for capital goods, three years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one and one half years for other goods. The same terms apply to the freight and insurance premiums involved, pro­ vided that Argentine means of transport and services are used. The Na t ional Export Credit Insurance C om­ mission provides credit insurance for exports of capital goods and consumer durable goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained and used for authorized transactions. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank­ notes and coins. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers are restricted. Sales of exchange in connection w i th investments, placements, or deposits within Argentina or abroad require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. Argentine industrial or commercial firms require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. A Foreign Investment L aw (Law N o. 19151 of July 31, 1971) provides that a ll new foreign invest­ ments must have government approval and must be registered. Profits and dividends may then be remitted from the end of the first year of operation. The firms concerned are permitted to receive domestic short-term credit up to 50 per cent of their registered capital and accumulated reserves; this limitation does not apply to export credit. Foreign companies established in A rgen­ tina prior to the promulgation of the law are required to register their capital in the investment register in order to be eligible for remittances of profits and d iv i­ dends or for repatriation of capital. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institutions and houses authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regula­ tions permitting nonbank residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold coins are unrestricted and free of duty; they must be settled through the financial market. Imports of gold bars are subject to the exchange regulations applicable to imports of other commodities and are settled in the commercial market; imports by industrial users are sub­ ject to a statistical duty of 3/io of 1 per cent, and those by others are subject in addition to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. A R G E N T I NA Changes during 1971 January 25. Exchange agencies and exchange houses were permitted to resume their operations after having been closed since October 15, 1970. A new type of institution, the exchange office, authorized to deal in foreign exchange was created. March 23. The exchange market was closed except for transactions related to foreign trade. March 29. Exchange sales were permitted for travel abroad and for the servicing of foreign loans. Exchange agencies and exchange houses were allowed to resume their activities. Exchange allocations were established for travel; these were US$200 a person a trip (for each 30-day period) for bordering countries and US$1 ,000 a person a trip (for the same period) for other countries (Central Bank Telephone Communica­ tion N o. 2467). April 6. A flexible exchange rate policy was intro­ duced. The Central Bank's buying and selling rate was depreciated from $a 4.00 to $a 4.04 per US $ 1. April 16. Exchange sales were resumed for a number of additional purposes, including freight and passages on foreign ships and airlines, study abroad, and insur­ ance premiums (Central Bank Telephone Commun i­ cation N o. 2469 ). April 26. The special tax on freight was raised from 4 per cent to 10 per cent for imports but remained unchanged at 2 per cent for exports. May 3. The exchange rate was depreciated from $a 4.04 to $a 4.12 per US $ 1. May 3. Decree N o. 901 extended tax rebates for the first time for exports of wool, sheepskins, lambskins, and wool tops. May 10. Exchange sales were resumed for additional purposes, including family assistance, and interest and charges on documentary credits, bills, or collections in respect of imports (Central Bank Telephone C om­ munication N o. 2474 ). Among the items for which the granting of exchange remained suspended were remit­ tances of profits and dividends. May 27. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on M ay 29. June 7. The exchange rate was depreciated from $a 4.12 to $a 4.20 per US $ 1. June 25. The exchange rate was depreciated from $a 4.20 to $a 4.40 per U S $ 1. June 30. Decree N o. 2118 prohibited for a period of one year the import of many commodities considered nonessential. July 29. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on Ju ly 30. July 29. It was announced that external dollar bonds would be issued in order to encourage the repatriation of resident-owned capital and to facilitate meeting cer­ tain obligations in respect of remittances abroad. July 29. The exchange rate was depreciated from 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A R G E N T I NA $a 4.40 to $a 4.70 per US $ 1. A tax of $a 0.30 per US$1 was levied on the exchange proceeds from nonpromoted exports. July 30. The travel allocations set on M a r ch 29 were reduced to US$150 and US$500 a person a trip (for each 30-day period) for neighboring countries and other countries, respectively. Remittances in respect of family assistance were restricted; they became subject to a limit of US$100 per remittor for each calendar month. Letters of credit covering imports of capital goods could no longer be opened if they provided for payment in cash or for terms of less than 90 days. July 30. Swap transactions required the prior approval of the Central Bank. July 31. A Foreign Investment Law, Law N o. 19151, came into force. A ll new investments of foreign capital in Argentina required approval and registration; dividends would be remittable from the end of the first year of operation at the official rate of exchange. Existing foreign investments also had to be registered; profit remittances or capital repatriation would not be permitted until registration had taken place. August 3. A tax of $a 0.50 per US$1 was levied on sales of exchange for travel abroad. August 24. Decree N o. 3255 substituted a new export promotion scheme for the existing one. August 25. The exchange rate was depreciated from $a 4.70 to $a 5.00 per US $ 1. The tax levied on the exchange proceeds from nonpromoted exports was increased from $a 0.30 to $a 0.45 per US $ 1. September 13, Authorized banks were prohibited from opening documentary credits or processing any banking instruments in respect of new import transactions and from transmitting documentary credits abroad (Central Bank Telephone Communication N o. 2509 ). September 15. Law N o. 19231 provided for stricter control over licensing agreements with nonresidents and for the registration, beginning in 1972, of all new and existing agreements of this nature. September 16. Remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties, all of which had been suspended since M a r ch 29, 1971, henceforth could be effected, but only through the purchase of negotiable five-year U. S. dollar-denominated external bonds issued by the Gov­ ernment. These bonds could be freely imported and exported. Purchases were to be settled at the closing selling rate quoted by the Banco de la N a t i on Argentina in the financial market on the day before subscription. They were first made available on October 30. September 19. Law N o. 19242 prohibited a ll imports un t il October 31, 1971, except when originating in L A F TA countries. Subsequently, certain exemptions were granted from this prohibition. On October 29 it was announced that the ban was being extended to imports for the public sector. September 20. A dual exchange market was reintro­ duced. In the commercial market, settlements in respect of trade transactions (except promoted exports) and 32 trade-connected invisibles continued to be effected at the rate of $a 5.00 per U S $ 1. A ll other transactions were channeled through a financial market in wh ich the rate was allowed to fluctuate. Promoted exports were settled at a m ix ing rate, with 90 per cent of the proceeds nego­ tiated at the commercial rate and 10 per cent at the financial rate. September 20. The limits on the sale of travel exchange were abolished. To tal disbursements of exchange for travel purposes were left to the discretion of authorized banks, which had to take into account the reasonable­ ness of the amount requested in light of the duration of the trip and the traveler's destination. The exchange had to be bought at the financial market rate. October 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with B r a z il came into operation. October 22. Au thor ized banks were required to clear with the Central Bank, inter alia, a ll payments in respect of imports for which no banking documents cou ld be submitted (Central Bank Telephone Communication N o. 2522 ). October 25. A ll settlements in respect of imports and exports took place at a m ix ing rate calculated by applying the commercial rate to 80 per cent of the total amount and the financial rate to 20 per cent. November 1. The ban on the opening of documentary credits was lifted in respect of private imports, but was continued regarding public imports, except with prior authorization from the Government. November /,. Upon the expiration of Law N o. 19242, L aw N o. 19326 prohibited a ll imports by the public sector. (The import restrictions on nonessential goods that had been introduced at the end of June were maintained for both the public and private sectors.) November 1. L aw N o. 19327 introduced an addi­ tional import surcharge of 15 per cent ad valorem on virtually a ll commodities, irrespective of country of origin. November 2. Law N o. 19328 brought a ll foreign borrowing by the public sector under the control of the M in is t ry of Finance; this also applied to imports with payment terms in excess of 180 days. The M i n i s­ try's prior approval was also required for a ll borrowing of foreign funds for which the Argentine Government gave its guarantee or aval. A ll borrowing from the I B RD and the I DB required the prior approval of the Planning Board. November 3. Decree N o. 5062 listed the commodities considered as promoted exports. November 4. Exporters of promoted products were permitted to negotiate 60 per cent of their exchange proceeds at the commercial rate and 40 per cent at the financial rate. November 8. A trade agreement with the E EC was signed. December 9. The m ix ing rate for the exchange proceeds from nonpromoted exports and for pay­ ments for imports was depreciated by a reduction from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 per cent to 70 per cent in the portion settled at the commercial rate. Imports and exports of books, news­ papers, and periodicals were shifted to the financial market, as were imports of gold. December 16. Export duties on most traditional exports were increased by Decree N o. 5970; those that had been exempt became subject to duty at a rate of 11 per cent. December 20. The commercial buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained unchanged at $a 5.00 per US $ 1. December 20. The exchange taxes of $a 0.30 and $a 0.15 per US$1 on proceeds from nonpromoted exports were eliminated. December 30. The proceeds from promoted exports had to be surrendered within 180 days of shipment. A R G E N T I NA 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts AUSTRALIA 1 The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Do l l a r. Aus tra l ia avails itself of wider mar­ gins of up to 2lA per cent and from time to time sets the official limits within which banks must effect spot transactions with the public in U. S. dollars, the inter­ vention currency; on December 31, 1971 these limits were US$1.1934 and US$1.1886 per $A 1. Banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other cur­ rencies, including sterling, on the basis of closing rates in London and New Y o r k. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks for periods appropriate to the nature of the transaction in respect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions and transactions in invisibles of a non­ capital nature. Banks are free to determine their own forward rates for a ll currencies. Aus tra l ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Gove rn­ ment with the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank of Au s­ tralia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Aus tra l ia is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and settlements between residents of Aus tra l ia and residents of other Sterling A r ea countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling A r ea currency, or in Aus tra l ian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling A r ea with a bank in Aus t ra l ia. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling A r ea may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, in Au s­ tralian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Aus tra l ia, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency. P ro­ ceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling A r ea may be accepted in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Aus tra l ian currency from an appropriate nonresident account, or in any non- Sterling A r ea currency wh ich is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. 1 The monetary area of Australia includes Papua-New Guinea. 34 A ll credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of resi­ dence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. Under current po l icy, the balance on an account held by a nonresident of the Sterling A rea may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts containing funds ine l ig i­ ble for remittance overseas. Residents of N au ru, includ­ ing those temporarily in Aus tra l ia, may hold N au ru Accounts. Transfers from N a u ru Accounts may be made for any purpose, including remittance overseas. Imports and Import Payments W i th the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports, pro­ vided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Import licenses are required for used, second­ hand, or disposals machinery or equipment and parts therefor (earthmoving or excavating vehicles, machinery or equipment; tractors, road rollers, or material-handling equipment); disposals, used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type passenger vehicles); and specified knitted garments (except when of New Zealand origin and shipped direct from that country). Current licensing of knitted garments has been imposed pending government negotiation of voluntary restraints w i th the pr inc ipal low-cost supplying coun­ tries. In addition, import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, mainly for reasons of health, morals, or security, or to maintain quality standards. In accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Coun c i l, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of transfers to specified bodies in V i e t -N am and remittances to Rhodesia (except in certain circumstances), they are not restricted; the control operates pr imar i ly to prevent unauthorized capi­ tal transfers, although there are some restrictions main­ tained for security reasons. App l ica t ions for outward transfers in connection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; no forms have to be filled out for amounts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any k ind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on appli­ cation, provided that the exchange control is satisfied ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for family maintenance and gifts; however, applications for such transfers are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the normal l im it for family maintenance are approved on application. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with foreign insurers. Travelers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic bank­ notes w i th in 6 months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Aus t ra l ia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Aus tra l ian currency, without special authorization; of this amount, up to $A 4 may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of a ll commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Fore ign Exchange) Regulations, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a further condition that a ll shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. The Customs (P ro­ hibited Exports) Regulations prohibit the export of specified goods either absolutely or subject to prescribed conditions. The controls have been established for the following purposes: to ensure adequate supplies to meet Australia's domestic requirements (e. g., copper and copper scrap, stainless steel scrap, and natural gas), to ensure adequate prices, to encourage the establishment of processing facilities (e. g., i ron ore and wood ch ips ), and to assist the orderly marketing of primary products. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited in accordance with the UN Resolutions. To avoid the imposition of import quotas on beef and mutton by the Un i ted States, restraints are applied to exports of beef and mutton to that market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling A r ea currencies may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from invisibles in other currencies do not have to be sur­ rendered, but may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital A ll transfers of capital from Aus t ra l ia require approval. Transfers abroad for direct investment involv­ ing the export of a significant measure of Aus tra l ian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for a ll types of invest­ ment which promote Aus tra l ian exports or protect existing Aus tra l ian investments abroad. A l though pro­ posals for investment overseas must be considered on A U S T R A L IA a case-by-case basis, for most practical purposes restric­ tions on capital outflow are limited to portfolio invest­ ment. App roval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commit­ ments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capital funds from abroad, although inward equity investment from Hong K o ng and from countries outside the Sterling A r ea requires approval, and residents must obtain approval before borrowing foreign currency, including Sterling A r ea currency, or incurring a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling A rea. F or the time being, Australian banks are required to sight specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $A 250,000 or more. Under the Government's guidelines policy, all enter­ prises in which more than 25 per cent of the equity is held directly or indirectly by overseas interests are requested to consult the Reserve Bank in respect of proposals to borrow in Aus tra l ia. The guidelines provide for reasonable access to Aus tra l ian borrowings for financing normal requirements of funds for working capital and for approval to be readily given to borrow­ ings to finance export transactions. L o c al borrowing to finance capital investment is determined in terms of formulas which take into account primarily the per­ centage of the equity in the company concerned held by Australians and the amount of increases in its funds employed. Foreign securities owned by Aus tra l ian residents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securities, but they are not normally permitted to trade in foreign securities among themselves. The export of securities and certain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. A ll foreign securities that are situated in, and in respect of which the pr inc ipal or interest is payable in the money of, a country included in the Sterling A rea are exempt from the requirement that a person shall not, without the Reserve Bank's authority, acquire for valuable consideration, dispose of, or otherwise deal with any foreign security. Gold Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia all gold coming into their possession with the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold lawfully acquired for use in a profession or trade. New ly mined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made available at its official buying price of $A 31.25 a fine ounce to an association of gold producers for sale at free market prices to local industrial users or overseas purchasers. Certain domestic gold production is subsidized under the G o l d -M i n i ng Industry Assistance A c t, 1954-70. Imports of gold are not restricted but imported gold becomes subject to delivery to the Reserve Bank. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A U S T R A L IA Exports of gold require the approval of the Reserve Bank. G o ld jewelry is not subject to acquisition by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unrestricted. Exports of gold jewelry exceeding $A 250 in value require the issue of an export license. Travelers require an export license if taking out of Aus t ra l ia certain speci­ fied goods, including gold jewelry, in excess of a total value of $A 10,000 or when the gold content value of any one article exceeds $A 1,000. Changes during 1971 January 1. Add i t ional items were added to the list of imports from New Zealand attracting preferential rates of duty under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. A further extension of the list took effect from July 1. May 6. Banks suspended quotations for dealings in Western European currencies, Japanese yen, and a few currencies tied to European currencies. No rm al dealings in these currencies were resumed on M ay 11. July 1. A simplified customs tariff schedule became operative and new rates of duty were introduced for certain goods as a consequence of a reduction by over ' 25 per cent in the number of trade classifications. Concessions to developing countries were modified marginally to adapt them to the new tariff; changes included an extension of the product coverage of certain existing preferential tariff rates and tariff quotas, but there was no increase in preferential tariff quota alloca­ tions. August 17. The Reserve Bank temporarily withdrew the general authority of banks to deal in foreign exchange. The banks remained free, however, to assist Aus tra l ian residents to settle amounts contractually due in foreign exchange under trade transactions, and to meet the reasonable needs of travelers. The Reserve Bank suspended its forward cover facilities. August 23. The Reserve Bank announced some tech­ nical changes for banks' dealings in foreign exchange. Since 1939 a ll foreign exchange dealings in sterling and dealings based on sterling had been handled by banks as agents for the Reserve Bank. The changes enabled banks to enter into these transactions with their customers on their own account, as they had done for some years with transactions in U. S. dollars and Cana­ dian dollars. In dealings with the public the banks were required to observe the same rates of exchange for sterling previously laid down by the Reserve Bank ( $A 2.1429 and $A 2 .1514). A limit would be placed on the amount of each bank's overall commitment in foreign exchange, and facilities to cover the risk would be available at the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange reserves continued to be centralized in the Reserve Bank and the banks still had to comply with existing exchange control requirements. August 24. The Reserve Bank announced that the August 17 restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by banks were being eased. Trad ing in spot transactions 36 was restored to the banks, but not for capital trans­ actions. U n t il further notice banks were authorized to undertake foreign exchange transactions to meet: (1) a ll normal trade transactions; (2) other current account transactions* contractually due; and (3) reasonable re­ quirements of travelers. It was not yet possible, however, to restore fu ll facilities for forward cover, even for the above categories of transactions. Rates of exchange for both spot and the limited forward facilities wou ld be available daily from the banks under arrangements w i th the Reserve Bank. The rates wou ld be based funda­ mentally on developments in the London and other main foreign exchange markets abroad. The spot rates for sterling remained unchanged. The Aus t ra l ian dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. August 27. The range of transactions for wh ich Australian banks could deal in foreign exchange was expanded to include amounts contractually due (inward or outward) in respect of capital transactions entered into by residents before August 16, 1971 and for wh ich any necessary exchange control authority had been obtained. Exchange rates for banks' transactions w i th the public in sterling were fixed by the Reserve Bank but banks were free to determine their own rates for transactions in other currencies. The Reserve Bank would provide for the banks cover facilities for spot and forward positions in sterling, U. S. dollars, and Canadian dollars, up to three months forward, at rates which wou ld be set by the Reserve Bank from time to time. The exchange rates applying to banks' spot and forward transactions in sterling remained the same as those ru l ing before August 16. September 5. The Aus tra l ian and New Zealand G o v­ ernments exchanged letters setting out the principles that should be followed in promoting the rationali­ zation of industry between the two countries. The exchange provided for greater flexibility in furthering the objectives of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. September 13. The August ban on inward and out­ ward capital transfers was lifted, subject to continuing Reserve Bank surveillance. F or the time being, banks would have to obtain specific Reserve Bank approval for a ll inward capital remittances of $A 250,000 or more, before converting them into Aus tra l ian currency. September 27. The three months' l im i ta t ion on Reserve Bank forward exchange facilities for the banks to cover their net positions in sterling and U. S. and Canadian dollars was removed. The Reserve Bank again made facilities available to the trading banks in these currencies to enable them to provide fu ll cover to their customers for a ll periods for which deferred payments arrangements had exchange control approval. At the same time, the Reserve Bank's rates to the banks for forward sterling cover were increased to $A 0.25 per <£ stg. 100 a month; the previous rate of $A 0.10 per <£ stg. 100 a month had been unchanged since 1964. The banks were given discretion to deal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with their customers in sterling forward exchange at rates determined by them; previously, they had to apply the standard Reserve Bank rate. It was also announced that banks were being given a limited measure of free­ dom to vary the exchange rates at which they deal with the public in spot transactions in sterling. Previously, such transactions had been carried out at rates of $A 2.1429 and $A 2.1514 la id down by the Reserve Bank. In future, the Reserve Bank would fix the outer limits of the sterling rates and the banks would be free to deal with the public within these limits; in i t ia l ly, the limits were set at the previous spot dealing levels of $A 2.1429 and $A 2.1514. Banks also were authorized to determine their own spot and forward rates for all other currencies. December 14. An increase in assistance to large pro­ ducers of gold under the G o l d -M i n i ng Industry Assist­ ance A ct was announced, to take effect from January 1, 1972. December 17. The Government announced changes in arrangements for duty exemptions to automobile manufacturers in the light car range. The objective was to increase the local content and to reduce in stages the duty-free concessions, wh ich would be totally e l im i­ nated w i th in a few years. December 20. The authority of the banks to engage in foreign exchange transactions was temporarily sus­ pended. A U S T R A L IA December 22. It was announced that Aus tra l ia would maintain the existing gold parity of the Australian dollar and would adopt wider margins of up to 2% per cent either side of parity in foreign exchange transactions. The effective parity relationship of the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, became $A 1 = US$1.21600. The Australian dollar would no longer have a fixed relationship w i th sterling (pre­ viously, the currency was pegged at $A 2.1429 = <£ stg. 1) but would in future be quoted on the basis of a fixed relationship with the U. S. dollar; sterling rates would be quoted on a daily basis. U n t il further notice, the midpoint for buying and selling rates would be US$1.1910 = $A 1. The Reserve Bank set the new margins w i th in which banks must deal with the public at US$1.1934 = $A 1 and US$1.1886 = $A 1. Banks were free to determine their own rates for other cur­ rencies, including sterling. Forward exchange facilities remained unchanged. December 23. Banks were authorized to resume for­ eign exchange business on the basis of the new arrange­ ments outlined above. The Reserve Bank would inform them from time to time of the rates at which it was prepared to deal with them in sterling and U. S. dollars. There was virtually no change in the forward cover facilities available at the Reserve Bank or commercial banks. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts AUSTRIA The par value is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Aus tr ian Sch i l l ing. A central rate of S 23.30 per US$1 has been established, and Aus t r ia avails itself of wider margins. The official limits for the U . S. dollar, the intervention currency, are S 22.78 buying, and S 23.82 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank w i ll buy or sell. The rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. do l lar maintained by Au s t r ia and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par with the U. S. dollar. Effective costs may deviate in switch transactions. Fo rwa rd premiums and discounts are in principle left to the interplay of market forces, but special forward facilities have been introduced for U. S. dollars and clearing dollars constituting the proceeds of exports of goods and services under certain contracts concluded before October 15, 1971. Aus t r ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agree­ ment, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Aus t r ian Na t ional Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Aus t r ian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, v iz ., the Federal M in i s t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th the countries w i th which Aus t r ia maintains bilateral payments arrangements1 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U. S. dollars. Settlements with a ll other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Sch i l l ing Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral mem­ ber countries" ( I MF or O E CD members w i th wh ich settlements take place in convertible currencies), "mu l­ tilateral nonmember countries" (other countries w i th which settlements are in convertible currencies), and "bilateral countries" (with which clearing arrangements are in fo rce ). 1 Eastern Germany and Rumania. From January 1, 1972, the agree­ ment accounts with Eastern Germany were kept in schillings. 38 There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Sch i l l ing Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the I MF or the O E C D, and Blocked Accounts for nonresi­ dents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold coins or convertible cur­ rencies by a nonresident to the Aus t r ian Na t ional Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the conversion serves to make a current payment to a resident, as we ll as with payments permitted by the Na t ional Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Aus t r ian residents, who must, however, apply for ind iv idual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign cur­ rency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked and Interim Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for many payments for current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in B locked and Interim Accounts is subject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the I MF or the O E C D. Balances in B locked Accounts exceed by far those in Interim Accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Sch i l l ing Accounts. Imports and Import Payments A ll commodities not included in the Annex to the Fore ign Trade L aw are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantita­ tive restriction. A ll goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries from wh ich they are imported; for such liber­ alized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.2 Nea r ly a ll imports from G A TT countries, their associated territories, and other coun­ tries 3 are liberalized. M any nonagricultural imports are admitted under an automatic licensing procedure when originating in Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge r­ many, Hungary, Po land, or Ruman ia. 2 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 3 The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Equa­ torial Guinea, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Non l ibera l ized imports may be obtained under var i­ ous procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compen­ sation (barter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, salt, spirits, and various breadstuffs and feedgrains. G lob al quotas apply to specified imports from O E CD countries and all other G A TT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslo­ vakia, and Japan. Discretionary ind iv idual licensing is applicable to a ll other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, m i lk and butter, cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption, and certain fertilizers are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regu­ lations maintained under Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t ing Laws. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. F or new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, coun­ tries w i th wh ich Au s t r ia makes settlements in con­ vertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.4 Payments for imports from, or originating i n, countries with wh ich Au s t r ia maintains bilateral payments agree­ ments (see footnote 1) require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies; payments for licensed imports shipped from and originating in one and the same bilateral country are covered by a general permission. Payments for Invisibles W i th few exceptions, residents are permitted to con­ clude transactions invo lv ing current invisibles w i th residents of countries that are members of the I MF or the O E C D. Exceptions comprise transactions concern­ ing transport, films, and insurance. As to transactions Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U. S. S. R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia. 4 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for payment; in such cases, the neces­ sary exchange license is issued at the same time. A U S T R IA in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries, general licenses cover the majority of these (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs); for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral payments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases. Payments on account of generally authorized inv is i­ bles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved (to bilateral countries only through the appropriate bilateral channel). Other payments abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments to "multilateral nonmember countries" and to bilateral countries for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Aus t r ia makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or take up as a short- term advance from nonresidents in multilateral coun­ tries up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Residents may buy travelers checks, etc., up to the equivalent of S 26,000 a trip from authorized banks in agreement currencies or local currencies for travel to bilateral countries. Should a resident require more for­ eign exchange for traveling, the increase may be author­ ized by the Na t ional Bank. In addition, Aus t r ian resi­ dents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Aus t r ia may take with them S 15,000 in Aus tr ian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation arrange­ ments are subject to licensing by the Federal M in is t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. F or most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of rele­ vant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Aus tr ian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur­ rendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments. Deposits in bilat­ eral clearing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an individual or general payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be depos­ ited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A U S T R IA the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Per­ sons entering Aus t r ia may bring in Aus tr ian or foreign banknotes and coins without l im i t. • Capital D irect investments by nonresidents are generally per­ mitted, if made with convertible currencies or from bal­ ances on free or originally owned blocked or interim schilling accounts. F or investments financed in other ways (imported Aus t r ian currency, inconvertible cur­ rencies, investment loans, and goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are freely permitted to obtain from non­ residents loans and credits as follows: (1) loans w i th maturities of five years or more, to be used by produc­ ing enterprises for the expansion of production equip­ ment; (2) refinancing of export claims; (3) loans to be used abroad for definite merchandise imports; (4) loans to be used by enterprises in Aus t r ia in wh ich the non­ resident creditors participate, provided the loans are appropriately related to the size of the nonresidents' shares in those enterprises; and (5) loans from relatives up to S 260,000 a borrower a year. The short-term for­ eign assets and liabilities in convertible currencies of authorized banks are in practice not subject to l im i ta­ tion, but any increase in their schilling liabilities to non­ residents over the level of August 13, 1971 is subject to the provisions of a gentlemen's agreement with the Na t ional Bank. A number of authorized banks are per­ mitted to accept from abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. The Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Aus t r ia (shares or participation in Aus tr ian enterprises, Aus tr ian securities, and real estate in Aus tr ia) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay­ ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inher­ itances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans up to the equivalent of S 260,000 a resident lender each year to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest­ ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com­ panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab­ lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the management of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Aus t r ia or abroad. Domestic insurance companies 40 may conclude with nonresidents life insurance contracts in Au s t r ia. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded w i th residents of countries that are members of the I MF or the O E C D. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "mu l t i­ lateral member countries" and quoted on stock exchanges 5 and Aus tr ian securities; for foreign securi­ ties and Aus tr ian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, w i th certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi­ ties listed on the V ienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept w i th such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con­ vertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Aus t r ian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited in accordance w i th the afore-mentioned provision with Aus t r ian authorized banks, only through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal­ lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange L aw. The Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transactions w i th monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial insti­ tutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and co in dealers to buy or sell in Au s t r ia gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including non­ residents); the prices are based on those for coins and unmanufactured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Aus t r ia and against payment in schillings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The M i nt releases certain types of gold coins to authorized credit institutions for resale to the pub l ic. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Au s t r ia, and they may acquire in Au s t r ia any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; furthermore, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fine- 5 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating nature in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk-spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. W i th the excep­ tion of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold sub­ ject to the Fore ign Exchange L aw is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, den­ tists, and jewelers; the M i n t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any form. Where the Fore ign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade, C om­ merce, and Industry, which usually grants any license applied for by industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for cer­ tain gold imports within its competence. Where this law does not require an import license for imports (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the Na t ional Bank cover­ ing the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued after consideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authoriza­ tion by the Na t ional Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coins that are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident trav­ elers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coins up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commerc ial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs; com­ mercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the M in i s t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1971 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the U. S. S. R. was terminated. January 1. The reduced tariffs previously reserved for imports from contracting parties to the G A TT were extended to goods imported from n o n - G A TT countries. January 1. The 10 per cent purchase tax on auto­ mobiles and trucks was abolished. January 1. The agreed list of Japanese goods subject to quota in Au s t r ia was reduced from 80 items to 62 items. (Restrictions on goods of Japanese origin were further reduced on January 1, 1972.) January 1. The temporary price-containment measures which were to expire at the end of 1970 were extended for another six months. The number of items on which customs duties were temporarily waived or reduced was increased to some 220 tariff items. Items included in 24 other tariff categories were exempted from import equalization levies. March 31. The last antidumping ordinances expired; they covered certain printed cotton fabrics and certain garments. A U S T R IA May 5. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on M ay 10. May 10. (M ay 9, Washington time.) The par value was changed from 0.0341796 to 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Austrian schilling, i.e., from S 26.00 to S 24.75 per US $ 1. The official margins for the buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were widened from 0.769 per cent to 0.97 per cent either side of parity; the new maximum and minimum rates were S 24.99 and S 24.51. May 10. The central bank concluded a gentleman's agreement for the months of M ay and June with the credit institutions providing, inter alia, that the banks ( in addition to meeting their normal reserve require­ ments) must place interest-free deposits with the Na t ional Bank equal to 40 per cent of any increase since M ay 3, 1971 in their schilling liabilities to non­ residents; in addition, banks were not to repatriate any foreign assets for the purpose of improving their schilling liquidity. Th is agreement expired at the end of June 1971. June 16. The implementing regulations issued over the years under the Exchange Con t rol L aw of 1946 were reissued in revised form in 12 separate notifica­ tions which became effective Ju ly 1, 1971. The liberal aspects of the exchange system were accentuated by many undertakings to issue licenses on application, the granting of additional general permissions, and by a number of increases in ceilings on freely permitted payments or transactions. Foreign countries were divided into three groups: member countries of the I MF and O E CD which settle payments in freely con­ vertible currencies ("multilateral member countries"), other countries settling in convertible currencies ("multi­ lateral nonmember countries"), and "bilateral countries." Blocked Accounts for nonresidents in the first group of countries henceforth were considered Interim Accounts and most transfers from such accounts were freely per­ mitted. The permitted periods for forward exchange transactions were lengthened from 6 months to 12 months. A new provision was that the central bank could fix maximum interest rates for residents' foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. F or the first time a general license was issued permitting residents to make payments for a large number of commercial transactions to residents of "bilateral countries." Other general permissions, covering, for example, the transfer of the sales proceeds of Austrian securities held by non­ residents, provided these had been purchased with con­ vertible currency were confirmed; and loans up to S 260,000 a person a year to or from relatives would be freely permitted. The regulations relating to gold transactions were eased. Dealing in gold coins that are not legal tender was permitted for a ll credit institutions and between a ll other residents, and another general license allowed resident travelers to take out, when going to "multilat­ eral member countries," gold coins that are not legal 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A U S T R IA tender up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip; non­ resident travelers could take out up to 200 grams a person a trip to any country. It was also announced that in addition to the publi­ cation of these regulations, a large number of general licenses had been issued to the credit institutions, and that the authorities would follow a more liberal policy than in the past in granting individual exchange licenses to the public. July 1. Further import liberalization measures within the framework of the temporary price-containment measures of 1969 went into effect, to be in force until October 1. In a l l, 92 items were liberalized, mainly goods that could be expected to be supplied by Eastern European countries and Japan. Moreover, imports of nonliberalized commodities from these countries would be licensed liberally. The temporary price-containment measures were extended to the end of 1971 and a total of 190 items were added to the existing list of items eligible for reduction in customs duties. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 24. August 23. It was announced that the authorities would attempt to keep the schilling stable in terms of the average rates for the currencies of the main indus­ trial countries of Europe. In this context, special weight was being given to the currencies of neighboring indus­ trial countries. August 24. The official buying rate for the U. S. dollar (S 24.51) was suspended, while the official selling rate (S 24.99) continued in effect. As a result, the schilling began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. The same was true for clearing dollars/* August 24. A gentlemen's agreement was concluded between the Na t ional Bank and the credit institutions which called for interest-free deposits with the Na t ional Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase over August 13 levels in their schilling liabilities to non­ residents. The banks also undertook not to improve their schilling liquidity by selling foreign currency or by early repatriation of foreign assets. The agreement was in i t ia l ly va l id until October 31, when it was extended to January 31, 1972. It was later extended to June 30, 1972. (In connection w i th the February 1972 renewal, the credit institutions undertook to appeal to their large customers not to borrow abroad.) August 24. Exchange rates for a ll foreign currencies could be freely agreed. August 24. Specific central bank approval was required 6 Later in the year, agreement on schilling invoicing was reached with all clearing countries except the U. S. S. R. for the crediting to Free Sch i l l ing Accounts —other than for current payments—of schilling proceeds arising from sales of freely convertible foreign currencies for the account of nonresidents. August 27. A gentlemen's agreement between the central bank and the commercial banks went into effect, which provided that the latter must deposit with the central bank, free of interest, the full schilling counter­ part of any foreign currency credits taken up abroad by banks to cover exchange risks of exporters. On Sep­ tember 9 the sterilization requirement was reduced to 75 per cent. On September 16 it was terminated. September 9. A long-term trade agreement with Poland was signed which provided that imports from that country would be fully liberalized by January 1, 1975, after further relaxation of restrictions in stages. The agreement came into force on January 1, 1972. October 29. The Na t ional Bank issued a general license by which exporters were permitted to offer for forward sale to the central bank, through their own banks and until November 12, their claims in U . S. dollars (including clearing dollars) arising from con­ tracts concluded before October 15 covering exports of goods and services and due for settlement within a period of over one year but not more than five years. Forward cover would be based on the November 15 middle rate for the U. S. dollar on the V ienna exchange. The total purchases of dollars by the Na t ional Bank would be limited to the amount needed by the authori­ ties to cover their long-term foreign payments commit­ ments (between US$100 m i l l ion and US$130 m i l l i o n ), and a rationing system might be applied. November 23. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was terminated. December 22. A central rate of S 23.30 = US$1 was established. Aus t r ia availed itself of wider margins. The official limits for the U. S. dollar were set at S 22.78 buying and S 23.82 selling per U. S. dollar, at which rates the central bank stood ready to deal, using the U. S. dollar as the intervention currency. The buying and selling rates for clearing dollars were the same as those for the U. S. dollar. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland were terminated. December 31. The use of clearing dollars under the bilateral payments agreement with Eastern Germany ceased for new transactions. W i th effect from January 1, 1972, settlements would take place over schilling accounts at the Oesterreichische Kon t ro l lbank and the Deutsche Auszenhandelsbank. December 31. The Na t ional Bank ceased to engage in direct foreign exchange transactions with the public. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per East Caribbean Do l la r. Barbados is a participant in the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, which established the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty to issue and manage a common currency in its member countries.1 The Currency Au thor i ty maintains a fixed relationship for the East Caribbean dollar with sterling, the intervention currency, at the rate of EC$4 .80 = £ 1. The East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty is authorized to levy a commission charge of up to 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling. On Decem­ ber 31, 1971 the commission charges in transactions with authorized banks were 5/ie of 1 per cent on inward transfers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The authorized banks apply the same commission charges in dealings in sterling with their customers, although they may levy an additional charge on ma il transfers and drafts. The East Caribbean Currency Authority maintains fixed buying and selling rates at % of 1 per cent either side of parity for the Guyana dollar, the Jamaica dollar, and the T r in idad and Tobago dollar. The authorized banks apply commission charges for these currencies of B A R B A D OS Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited and imports originating in mainland Ch in a, the C M EA countries, N o r th Ko rea, Japan, and Portugal require individual licenses. Imports from Japan are kept under review in order to prevent a widening of the trade imbalance with that country and to protect certain local industries. Certain imports are prohibited or are subject to discretionary licensing irrespective of or ig in. These include goods which compete with domestic products, such as m i lk, live poultry, sugar, beverages, and certain items of clothing. Special licensing arrange­ ments apply to goods originating in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association, of which Bar­ bados is a member. Imports affected by these require­ ments include pork, eggs, fruits, vegetables, and nuts, a ll of which are licensed to conform with the terms of the protocol laying down the agricultural marketing arrangements for the Caribbean Free Trade Agreement. Individual licenses are required for imports of com­ modities subject to international commodity agreements, including wheat, rice (which is imported only from Guyana in terms of the Barbados-Guyana R ice Agree­ ment) , and commodities subject to the provisions of the O il and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Guyana, Grenada, St. L u c i a, St. Vincent, T r in idad and Tobago, and Dom in ica. A ll imports not referred to previously are on open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (relevant invoices or customs warrants) to authorized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Payments for a ll commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature. These include foreign travel, for which up to E C$ 1,000 a person may be allocated for each travel year, expenses of education abroad (EC$2 ,500 a person a year after the first yea r ), and subscriptions to newspapers, magazines, etc. W i th the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. Residents of Barbados and other Sterling A r ea coun­ tries may take out unlimited amounts in travelers checks denominated in East Caribbean dollars or other Sterling A r ea currencies for encashment only in Sterling A r ea countries. Residents traveling to destinations outside the Sterling A r ea may take out notes and coins up 44 to the value of EC$100 in the currencies of Sterling A r ea countries and E C$ 1,000 in the currencies of non-Sterling A rea countries. Residents of non-Sterling A r ea countries may take out any notes and coins which they brought into Barbados. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited and licenses are required for the export of goods to mainland Ch ina, the C M EA countries, N o r th Ko r e a, Tibet, and No r th V i e t -N am. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these goods include rice, sugar, and turtle shells. Cer­ tain goods, including rum, molasses, and confectionery, require licenses when exported to non-Sterling A r ea countries, and licenses are also required for the export of specified goods to any country that is not a member of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. These goods include coconuts and coconut o i l, lard, and margarine. A ll other goods may be exported without license. Exports are supervised by the Exchange Con t rol Au tho r i ty to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in foreign cur­ rencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars, other Sterling A r ea currencies, or non-Sterling A r ea currencies. Resi­ dent travelers are required to sell their holdings of for­ eign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital A ll capital transfers to countries outside the Sterling A r ea require exchange control approval. D irect investments in non-Sterling A r ea countries by residents of Barbados require exchange control approval; when permission is granted, such investments must be channeled through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. The purchase by residents of Barbados of non-Sterling A r ea securities and of real estate for private purposes outside the Sterling A r ea is not normally permitted. When permission is granted, however, the purchase of non-Sterling A r ea securities or of real estate situated outside the Sterling A r ea must be financed through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Certificates of title to non-Sterling A r ea securities held by residents of Bar­ bados must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers such as inheritances to resi­ dents of non-Sterling A r ea countries require exchange > control approval, which is granted subject to the pay­ ment of estate and succession duties. Dowries in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution form of settlements, and cash gifts up to EC $ 5 00 a year may be transferred, w i th exchange control approval, to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Direct investment in Barbados by residents of coun­ tries outside the Sterling A rea may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest­ ment, and to the registration of the original investment with the Exchange Con t rol Au tho r i ty. The issuance and transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, wh ich is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of non-Sterling A r ea currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securi­ ties may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from non-Sterling A rea currency sources. Residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea may acquire in Barbados real estate for private purposes with funds from non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rency sources or a combination of local and non-Sterling Area currency sources. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of non- Sterling A r ea currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Cap i tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a rate of return on the original foreign investment, calculated at the following rates: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preced­ ing the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of EC$24,000 a year. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes B A R B A D OS only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are exempted from customs duties, charges, and other taxes. Licenses to import and export gold are issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Official institutions in Barbados do not purchase gold. Changes during 1971 February 17. The Miscellaneous Controls (General Open Import License) Regulations 1971 replaced the Exports and Imports (General Open Import License) Order 1968, as amended, retaining the same provisions regarding the requirement to obtain a license for im­ ports from specified countries and for imports of certain listed commodities irrespective of the country of or ig in. August 9. An in i t ial par value of 0.444335 gram of fine gold per East Caribbean dollar, equivalent to E C $2 = US $ 1, was established. No appreciation or depreciation of the currency was involved. August 16. Transactions in foreign exchange were suspended. August 23. Transactions in foreign exchange were resumed. As a result of the statutory l ink to sterling, which was maintained, the East Caribbean dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. December 22. It was announced that there would be no change in the par value of the East Caribbean dollar in terms of gold. As a result, the effective parity rela­ tionship for the U . S. dollar became E C$ 1.84211 = US $ 1. December 22. It was announced that exchange con­ trol was being extended to the Sterling A r e a. The deci­ sion, however, was not implemented. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELG IUM -LUXEMBOURG * Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg have established central rates of B F / L ux F 44.8159 = US$1 and avail themselves of wider margins, except in respect of the Netherlands guilder. There are two spot exchange markets—the official {reglemente or regulated) and the free; these markets are separated and foreign currency acquired in one may not be sold in the other. Most current trans­ actions are settled in the official market and most capital transactions in the free. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, fluctuates within official limits of BF 43.8075 buying, and BF 45.8250 selling, per US $ 1. The rates for the other convertible currencies except the Netherlands guilder fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Belgium- Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The exchange rate for the Netherlands guilder in the official market is main­ tained within margins of IV2 per cent either side of the cross-parity of f. 1 = BF 13.812 or BF 100 = f. 7.24. The rate for the zaire fluctuates between limits of 2% per cent either side of BF 89.6318 (US$2), i.e., between BF 87.6150 buying, and BF 91.6500 selling, per Z 1. Most exchange transactions are settled through the offi­ c ial market. F or a ll inward and outward payments in excess of BF 10 m i l l ion through that market, supporting documents must be submitted to the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change or I B L C ). In the free exchange market, a ll currencies (includ­ ing domestic and foreign banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1971, the free market rates between banks for the U. S. dollar were BF 44.76 buying, and BF 44.79 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one exchange market or the other must be used; * This survey takes into account certain minor exchange control changes introduced on March 15, 1972. With effect from April 24, 1972, the National Bank narrowed the margins in the official exchange market for the deutsche mark, the French franc, and the Italian lira. The Benelux intervention arrangement was continued on the same basis. 1 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs (commercial), Italian lire, Netherlands guilders (on Convertible Accounts), Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. Although Zai'rian currency (the zaire) is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, nor the exchange of the zaire for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. 46 in a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembou rg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies; however, there are special regulations for the zaire. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con­ vertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, pro­ vided that the currencies thus acquired are used for the authorized settlement of obligations within five work ing days from delivery; exchange not used within that per­ iod must be resold in the official market. Profits result­ ing from forward contracts not covering authorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be given up to the Treasury. A ny resident or non­ resident, banks included, may deal in any currency in the free market. Exchange rates in the forward market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Econom ic U n i o n — B L E U ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Econom ic Un ion is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The B L EU Convention of M ay 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of January 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Adm in is t ra­ tive Commission the authority to license trade transac­ tions; this Commision determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the B L E U, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The presciption of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appro­ priate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appro­ priate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution b i l a t e r al coun t r i es 2 a nd the c o n v e r t i b le area ( a ll o ther coun t r i e s ). A ll i nw a rd a nd o u tw a rd t ran sac t ions are c lass i f ied in f o ur g roup s, w h i ch m ay be s umm a r i z ed as f o l l ow s: L i st A cove rs m e r c h a n d i s e, t ran spo rt expenses, i n d u s­ t r i al expenses (e .g ., costs of p r o c e s s i n g ), and o ther c omm e r c i al expenses, i n c l u d i ng i n s u r a n c e; L i st B cove rs se t t lemen ts of t r a v el f i rm s, sa la r ies, pens ions, fees, sub­ s c r ip t ion s, taxes, a nd p u b l ic a dm i n i s t r a t i on p aym en t s; L i st C cove rs ( 1) a dm i n i s t r a t i on expenses, ( 2) i n c ome on secu r i t ie s, lo an s, e tc ., ren ts, a nd o p e r a t i ng p ro f i ts, a nd ( 3) r e p a t r i a t i on of c e r t a in fo r e ign l o n g - t e rm inve s t­ men ts a nd transfers by em ig r an ts of f o r e i gn n a t i o n a l i t y; L i st D cove rs gifts, l i fe in su r an ce p aym en t s, f am i ly m a in t en an ce p aym en t s, c a p i t al inve s tmen t s, l i q u i d a t i on of inve s tmen t s, dea l ings in g o l d, transfers by em ig ran ts of B e l g i an or L u x e m b o u rg n a t i o n a l i t y, t rans fe rs by imm i g r a n t s, inh e r i t an c e s, f o rw a rd c o v e r i ng of m e r­ chand i se, p r i v a te t r a v el expenses (except w h en settled t h r o u gh t r a v el a g e n c i e s ), a nd a ll t ran sac t ions not in any of the o th er three l is ts. T he p e rm i s s ib le me thods of se t t lement f or f o r e i gn B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG p aym en ts are s umm a r i z ed in the a c c om p a n y i ng tab le. In d e a l i ng w i th coun t r i es in the c o n v e r t i b le a rea, t rans­ a c t ions c o n t a i n ed in L i s ts A a nd B mu st be se t t led t h r o u gh the o f f ic ial m a r k et ( o r, if m ade in B e l g i an a nd L u x e m b o u rg f rancs, t h r o u gh C o n v e r t i b le A c c o u n t s) a nd those c o n t a i n ed in L i st D t h r o u gh the free m a r k et ( or t h r o u gh F i n a n c i al A c c o u n t s ). As regards t ransac­ t ions in L i st C, o u tw a rd p aym en ts f or some of these ( a dm i n i s t r a t i on expenses and inv e s tm ent e a r n i n g s) are c h a n n e l ed t h r o u gh the o f f i c i al m a r k et ( or C o n v e r t i b le A c c o u n t s ), w h i le o u tw a rd paymen ts for a ll o the rs a nd a ll i n w a rd p aym en ts c an be t r an s f e r r ed t h r o u gh e i ther the o f f i c i al or free m a r k et (or t h r o u gh e i ther C o n v e r t i b le or F i n a n c i al A c c o u n t s ). T r a n s a c t i o ns that m ay or mu st be se t t led t h r o u gh the free m a r k et m ay a l so be effected in d om e s t ic or f o r e i gn b ankno t e s. In a d d i t i on to the g en e r al m e thods of se t t lement d e s c r i b ed above, i n d i v i d u al l icenses are g ran ted in o r d er to a l l ow transfers t h r o u gh the o f f ic ial m a r k et f or some of the t ran sac t ions m e n t i o n ed in L i st D. Th e se c o v er e s sen t ia l ly d i r e ct inve s tment by en te rp r ises a nd some c a p i t al t rans fe rs by i n d i v i d u a l s. S U M M A RY OF P E R M I S S I B LE M E T H O DS OF S E T T L E M E NT F OR F O R E I GN P A Y M E N TS T R A N S A C T I ON L I ST C O U N T RY G R O UP F O R E I GN C U R R E N CY E X C H A N GE M A R K ET A, B, C ( l ), C ( 2) C o n v e r t i b le C o n v e r t i b le O f f i c i al Outward Payments C o n v e r t i b le A ny O f f i c i al or free C o n v e r t i b le A ny A, B, C, D B i l a t e r al — F r ee — N O N R E S I D E NT A C C O U NT IN F R A N CS C o n v e r t i b le C o n v e r t i b le or F i n a n c i al F i n a n c i al B i l a t e r a l3 F i n a n c i al B i l a t e r al or C o n v e r t i b le 3 C ( 3) D C D A, B C o n v e r t i b le C o n v e r t i b le O f f i c i al C o n v e r t i b le Inward Payments C o n v e r t i b le C o n v e r t i b le O t h er O f f i c i al or free F r ee ^ C o n v e r t i b le j or F i n a n c i al C o n v e r t i b le A ny F r ee A, B B i l a t e r al C o n v e r t i b le O f f i c i al C D B i l a t e r al C o n v e r t i b le O t h er O f f i c i al or free F r ee B i l a t e r al or C o n v e r t i b le 3 B i l a t e r al A ny F r ee B i l a t e r a l3 2 The bilateral group countries are Burund i, Rwanda, and Za ire. The B L EU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreements. 3 Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with Zaire may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in Zaires held with banks in Za ire. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi­ dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.5 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a non­ resident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Conver t i­ ble Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub­ ject to authorization by the I B L C. Convertible Accounts may be held only in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits) and balances may not bear interest except for amounts originating from documentary credits estab­ lished by banks resident in specified countries. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,6 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market, and for retransfer abroad through the financial market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium- Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to F inanc ial Accounts. Transfers between F inanc ial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilat­ eral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Bu rund i, Rwanda, 5 Including international organizations and foreign diplomatic repre­ sentations established in the BLEU. Foreign diplomats, foreign employees of diplomatic representations established in the B L E U, and foreign employees of specified international organizations estab­ lished in the B L EU may, for certain transactions, maintain Special Convertible Accounts. c Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic repre­ sentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified international organizations situated in the BLEU, and individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. 48 and Za ire. In practice, the authorities permit the con­ version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of Rhodesian o r ig in are prohibited. Ind i­ v idual licenses are required for (1) a ll imports from A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong K o n g, Hungary, Japan, N o r th Ko rea, Outer Mongo l ia, Po land, Rumania, the U .S .S .R ., and No r th V i e t -N am ,7 (2) a number of imports from a ll other countries except Luxembou rg .8 The commodi­ ties for which ind iv idual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, and coal and kerosene. A ll other commodi­ ties, which constitute about four fifths of total imports, are free of license and quantitative restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notifica­ tion of the payment (payment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from n o n -EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E EC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced a ll previous barriers to imports; common E EC regula­ tions are also applied to imports from n o n - E EC coun­ tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Certain agricultural imports of non-Benelux E EC origin or originating in third countries are subject to compensa­ tory levies. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The author­ ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods la id down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired un t il the import payment is due. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission. P r ior examination of supporting documents by the I B LC is required for payments exceeding BF 10 m i l l ion, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or after the date of customs clearance. Payments for transit transactions must be made within three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac­ tions included in Lists A, B, and subcategories (1) and (2) of L i st C must be made through the official r7 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of com­ modities when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslo­ vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 8 Most imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other E EC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Accoun t. Supporting documents must be presented to an authorized bank; for payments exceeding BF 10 m i l l ion and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of the supporting documents by the I B LC is required. Payments to convertible area coun­ tries for items in subcategory (3) of L i st C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a C o n­ vertible Accoun t) or through the free market (alter­ natively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg fiancs to a F inanc ial Accoun t, or in foreign or domestic bank­ notes); payments for items in L ist D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Be l­ gian or Luxembourg francs to a F inanc ial Accoun t, or in foreign or domestic banknotes). Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Za i re, however, may also be made in za'ires through a converti­ ble account in Za i re. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance with UN Security Counc il Resolution N o. 253(68) of M ay 29, 1968. Individual licenses are required for specified exports to a ll countries except Luxembourg.9 A ll other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notifica­ tion of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza­ tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export pro­ ceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an author­ ized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds exceeding BF 5 million in value requires prior authorization of the I B L C; in addition, payments for exports to bilateral countries may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for exportation; proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign sup­ plier. P r ior examination of supporting documents by the I B LC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 m i l l ion. 9 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con­ nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, w i th in eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange marke t), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. P r ior examination of supporting documents by the I B LC is required for receipts exceed­ ing BF 10 m i l l ion through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in L ist C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in a ll other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital A ll capital transactions with convertible area coun­ tries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the F inanc ial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial charac­ ter, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license, and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. A l so eligible for out­ ward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the B L E U, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. A ll transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. The pr ior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents. Pub l ic bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral coun­ tries must be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, or in the case of 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG Zaire, in zaires; inward payments for capital transac­ tions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market, or in the case of Za ire, in zaires. The external position of authorized banks is not subject to l im i t a t ion .10 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settle­ ments in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may only be made through the free market, through financial accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for industrial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who have to make pay­ ment through the official market. Transactions in mone­ tary gold, i.e., coins and bars, are exempt from value- added tax in Belgium. Changes during 1971 January 1. A value-added tax was introduced in Belgium; among the exemptions were transactions in monetary gold, i.e., coins and bars. In Luxembourg, both the general and the reduced rate of value-added tax were increased. January 1. A temporary export tax of 1.75 per cent was introduced in Belgium. (The tax was abolished on January 1, 1972.) January 1. A new Econom ic Expansion L aw, prov id­ ing various incentives to stimulate domestic and foreign investment in development areas, entered into effect in Belgium. February 1. The agreement concerning the unification of the Benelux customs territory came into force. Border formalities in trade with the Netherlands were further simplified. February 8. A Royal Decree was issued implementing the law of December 31, 1970, which had amended the charter of the Office Na t ional du Ducroire and had enabled it to cover the po l i t ical and transfer risk of certain new Belgian investments abroad. March 24. Authorized banks in Belgium were requested with immediate effect not to allow their net external spot debtor position to deteriorate below amounts calculated for a specified base period. The ceilings for banks in Belgium and Luxembourg on their 10 On March 9, 1972, banks in Belgium and Luxembourg were requested not to allow their net external debtor positions in domestic and foreign currencies (spot) to increase beyond the level at the close of business on that date. 50 net spot position in foreign currencies relating to the official market and on ma il credits on Convertible Accounts were maintained. April 29. The authorized banks' reporting require­ ments with respect to their long spot positions in foreign currencies in the official market and their mail-credit advances on nonresident Convertible Accounts were terminated. The ceilings on these positions and advances, as imposed on October 1, 1969 and modified on M ay 20, 1970, were maintained. May 5. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on M ay 11. May 11. The I B LC announced its decision to separate the official market and the free market completely and to avoid the accumulation by nonresidents of balances in convertible Belgian francs and Luxembourg francs in excess of amounts required to execute current trans­ actions. Previously, transactors in the B L EU exchange markets enjoyed a considerable degree of freedom in choosing between the official and free markets. V i r tua l ly a ll outward payments for current transactions and some outward payments for capital transactions could be made through either market at the option of the payor; there was a similar choice with respect to a limited number of inward payments (mainly a ll capital inflows and most investment income ), so that in effect a ll pay­ ments could be switched to the free market and a ll receipts to the official market. Henceforth, it was no longer permitted to transfer to the official market foreign currency purchased in the free market (freedom to do so had been the only direct l ink between the two markets), and the options between the two markets were virtually eliminated for outward payments and reduced for incoming payments. The effect was that most current payments could only be made and received through the official market (the main exceptions being travel expenditures and settlements in respect of trans­ actions on commodity markets abroad or transactions in monetary gold) and that virtually a ll capital trans­ actions had to be settled in the free market. Nonresident banks remained free to convert foreign currency in the official market for credit to Nonresident Convertible Accounts, and to reconvert balances on such accounts into foreign currency through the same market. May 11. Residents of the B L E U, including authorized banks, were no longer permitted to sell on the official market, or to deposit to Con tro l led Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency, foreign currencies acquired on the free market or held as free balances. As a result, foreign currencies, which previously could not go to a discount in the free market, henceforth could go to a discount as well as a premium. May 11. Residents of the B L EU were no longer per­ mitted to purchase or use free market balances of foreign currencies, make deposits to Nonresident F inan­ c ial Accounts, or use Belgian, Luxembourg, or foreign banknotes to effect payments in favor of nonresidents in respect of imports of goods; transit purchases of goods; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or operations shown in Lists A and B or shown under the headings "administration expenses" and "income" of List C of the I B LC regulations. As a result, a ll these payments could only be made at the official market rate. May 11. Residents of the B L EU were no longer per­ mitted to sell foreign currencies on the official market or to deposit such currencies to Controlled Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency, or to receive payments in Belgian francs or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Nonresident Convertible Accoun t, in settlement of operations shown in L ist D (which included dealings in gold and transactions on foreign commodity markets) or income the due date of which preceded the date of collection by more than six months. As a result, all these receipts could only be settled at the free market rate. May 11. Residents of the B L EU were no longer permitted to receive advance payments through the official exchange market or to the debit of Nonresident Convertible Accounts, except in respect of exports or transit transactions the value of which did not exceed B F / L ux F 5 m i l l ion. May 11. Au thor ized banks were no longer permitted to credit Nonresident F inanc ial Accounts, or to sell foreign currencies on the free market, or to deliver Belgian, Luxembourg, or foreign banknotes, as counter­ part to purchases of foreign currencies on the official market or to debits to Nonresident Convertible Accounts. Banks were authorized to cash travel instruments or checks (in Belgian or Luxembourg francs) drawn on a Nonresident Convertible Account and presented by a foreign traveler, up to a maximum of B F / L ux F 20,000 for each Convertible Accoun t. May 11. F or any purchase of foreign currencies from a resident of the B L EU on the official market, any deposit of such currencies to a Controlled Resident Account in Fore ign Currency, and any debit to N o n­ resident Convertible Accounts in favor of a resident of the B L E U, authorized banks were required to submit to the I B LC for pr ior examination the documents and any written information submitted to them in support of the operation, when the amount involved exceeded B F/ Lux F 10 m i l l ion. May 11. Au thor ized banks were no longer allowed to open for nonresidents time or prior-notice Nonresident Convertible Accounts, or to pay interest on Nonresident Convertible Sight Accounts. May 11. Interest owed in foreign currency by banks to residents or nonresidents had to be settled from their free market balances, and interest received by banks in foreign currency had to be added to their free market balances. May 18. The I B LC simplified the control procedure for certain types of transactions for which banks could pay out Belgian or Luxembourg francs to residents against foreign currency received through the official market or to the credit of a Controlled Resident Account or received in Belgian or Luxembourg francs B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG to the debit of a Nonresident Convertible Account (as well as amounts up to which they could do so). The circular also specified the freely permitted debits and credits to Assimilated Resident Accounts. Transfers to Nonresident F inanc ial Accounts from Bilateral Accounts related to Burund i, Rwanda, or Zaire, which previously were allowed up to B F/ L ux F 100,000, were no longer permitted. May 26. Accounts in Belgian francs or Luxembourg francs opened by stockbrokers in the names of foreign physical and juridical persons could no longer be credited with the proceeds of coupons payable in B e l­ gian or Luxembourg francs and collected for the account of nonresidents, or with transfers from N o n­ resident Convertible Accounts held with authorized banks. The coupons referred to had henceforth to be collected by an authorized bank, and their proceeds could only be paid out in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the credit of a Nonresident Convertible Account with the bank concerned or in foreign cur­ rencies purchased on the official market, subject to con­ firmation by the stockbroker that the owner of the securities resided outside the B L E U. June 3. Authorized banks were advised to deposit in a special noninterest-bearing blocked account with the Na t ional Bank of Belgium an amount equivalent to the excess over the ceiling on their net foreign debit posi­ tion established on M a r ch 24. June 8. Au thor ized banks were permitted to debit Nonresident Convertible Accounts up to an amount of B F / L ux F 50,000 for each transaction in execution of payments for specified services included in L ist D. June 8. Authorized banks were permitted to make transfers from Nonresident Convertible Accounts held by residents of Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire to the holder's Assimilated Resident Accoun t, up to the bal­ ance on the Nonresident Convertible Account on M ay 10. June 8. Authorized banks were permitted to pay interest on balances in Nonresident Convertible Accounts deriving from the establishment of documentary credits by banks located in specified countries. June 8. No documentation was required for payments to nonresidents of amounts up to B F / L ux F 50,000. Previously, the limit was B F / L ux F 10,000. July 1. Generalized tariff preferences on specified commodities originating in most developing countries went into effect. July 14. A most-favored-nation treaty and a long- term trade and payments agreement between Benelux and the U. S. S. R. were signed. They came into force on August 1, when the B L E U 's bilateral payments agree­ ment with the U. S. S. R. was terminated. Settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. As a result, the U. S. S. R. on August 2 was included in the "convertible area." July 19. The existing regulations concerning Special Nonresident Accounts of employees of specified inter- 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B E L G I U M - L U X E M B O U RG national organizations and Assimilated Resident A c­ counts of B L EU nationals residing in Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire were replaced by regulations governing the use of three types of special accounts denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs: Assimilated Resident Accounts, Convertible Accounts of International Orga­ nizations and D ip loma t ic Representations, and Special Convertible Accounts. August 16. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on August 23. August 23. The previous exchange rate margins in the official market ceased to be observed, except in respect of the Netherlands guilder. The Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc began to float in the official market, where they appreciated in terms of the U. S. dollar; previously, the effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar had been BF 50.00 = U S $ 1. Trans-' actions in the official market in Netherlands guilders, however, were resumed on the basis of the pre-May 9 cross-parity (f. 1 = BF 13.81215 or BF 100 = f. 7 .24), within the pre-May 9 margins of approximately 1.5 per cent either side of the cross-parity; to maintain this parity and the margins, the two central banks would intervene in each other's currencies. The new exchange rate arrangements were also applicable, mutatis mutandis, to the Luxembourg franc, which remained at par with the Belgian franc. The free market con­ tinued to function as before. August 24. Imports of most agricultural products from France, Germany, and Italy required a license. Imports of the same commodities from France and Italy also became subject to a deposit requirement. These requirements were continued into 1972. September 16. The limits on authorized banks' net external debtor position established on M a r ch 24 were suspended until further notice. The blocked account arrangements of June 3 were terminated and accumu­ lated balances would be definitely released during Octo­ ber (certain balances were released immediately). September 23. The direct controls on bank credit (encadrement du credit) were lifted with effect from September 30. October I. The rate of the temporary export tax was selectively reduced for specified products. A further reduction took place on November 20. November 26. The ceilings established on October 1, 1969 and modified on M ay 20, 1970 for each autho­ rized bank on the long spot position in foreign curren­ cies relating to the official market, and on ma il credits on Nonresident Convertible Accounts, were suspended until further notice. November 26. Authorized banks were permitted to execute payments abroad by residents in the form of checks drawn in Belgian francs or Luxembourg francs up to a maximum of B F / L ux F 50,000 without pr ior authorization by the I B L C, provided that the payor submitted required documentation, and that the counter­ part be deposited in a Nonresident Convertible, F in an­ c ial or Bilateral Account in accordance with the pre­ scription of currency regulations. December 20. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on December 21. December 21. Belgium and Luxembourg established central rates of BF 44.8159 = US$1 and L ux F 44.8159 — U S $ 1. Both countries availed themselves of wider margins. The Belgian intervention limits for the U. S. dollar in the official market were set at BF 43.8075 buying and BF 45.8250 selling. The free market con­ tinued to function as before. The "joint float" of the Benelux currencies was continued, w i th margins remain­ ing at 11/2 per cent. The intervention limits for the zaire, which prior to August 15, 1971 had been BF 99.25-100.75 per Z 1, were replaced by limits of BF 87.61 50-*> 1.6500 per Z 1. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On M ay 14, 1953, a par value for the Bo l iv iano was established by Bo l iv ia w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was estab­ lished by virtue of Supreme Decree N o. 4538 of Decem­ ber 15, 1956. A ll exchange transactions are carried out in a free market, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since January 1959. The U. S. dollar is the intervention currency. On January 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bo l iv ian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Central Bank of Bo l iv ia operates in the public sec­ tor, buying foreign exchange from the Government, the official enterprises, inc lud ing the Bo l iv ian M i n i ng Co r­ poration ( C O M I B O L ), and private export firms, and selling foreign exchange to the Banco del Estado, the commercial banks and exchange houses, and the Gov­ ernment and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1971 was $b 11.875 buying, and $b 11.885 selling, per U S $ 1. A ll sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per m i ll stamp tax. Bo l iv ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4. of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements w i th Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland are channeled through special accounts. Other­ wise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U. S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bo l iv ia and Argentina, Ch i l e, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, M ex i co, and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the M in i s t ry of Industry and C om­ merce; they are not permitted to import commodities also available in Bo l iv i a. Private imports of certain com­ modities also require such pr ior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foodstuffs, raw cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of cigarettes, cement, and certain other locally produced goods is prohibited. A ll other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the free market; commercial banks make exchange available the first business day after receipt of the appli­ cation. A ll foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the Stabilization and Development Coun c i l. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market; commercial banks make exchange available the first business day after receipt of the appli­ cation. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100, however, must indicate the purpose of their purchase. Residents of Bo l iv ian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 60 for over­ land travel to such countries, $b 300 for air travel to other L a t in Ame r ican countries, and $b 400 for air travel to countries outside La t in Ame r ica. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to licensing. A ll proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. The marketing of minerals is a state monopoly; in prac­ tice, C O M I B OL and the medium-sized mines export their own production and the M i n i ng Bank that of the small mines of the private sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made through the free market; inward capital transfers also may be made through that market, but government receipts of trans­ fers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. Commercial banks make exchange available the first business day after receipt of the appli­ cation. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100 must indicate the purpose of the purchase. A ll foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agen­ cies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior authorization by the Stabilization and Development Coun c i l. Foreign investments in Bo l iv ia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment L aw of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the Na t ional Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Petroleum Code and the M i n i ng Code. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree N o. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B O L I V IA in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to pur­ chase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Supreme Decree N o. 8635 of January 29, 1969 further regulated the purchase and sale of gold, silver, and platinum by the Central Bank and the M i n i ng Bank. The Central Bank purchases a limited amount of gold at the free market price from the foreign-owned company and the M i n i ng Bank, which buys from the smaller producers on behalf of the Central Bank. C O M I B OL exports a ll the gold it produces at the free market price. The foreign-owned company and the M i n i ng Bank are also allowed to export gold at the free market price. The M i n i ng Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bo l iv ia. Changes during 1971 March 31. Private firms ceased to be required to deposit their dividends and profits for a m in imum period of one year. The requirement had already been relaxed in 1970 when Decree N o. 9286 authorized private firms to distribute dividends and profits up to $b 20.000 for each beneficiary. April 21. Supreme Decree N o. 09680 introduced a progressive travel tax requiring outgoing travelers to pay $b 150 for the first and second trips in any calen­ dar year, $b 1,200 for the third trip, $b 6,000 for the fourth tr ip, and $b 10,000 for any subsequent trips. Nonresident travelers were exempt for the first two trips. The tax replaced the lower travel taxes that were in effect previously. May 7. Supreme Decree N o. 09710 amended Su­ preme Decree N o. 09680 by providing special facilities in respect of the progressive travel tax for personnel of cultural and scientific institutions. June 3. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Ecuador. It came into force on Ju ly 1. June 19. A trade and payments agreement providing for settlements through special accounts was signed with Bulgaria. It came into force immediately. June 30. Bo l iv ia ratified the Fore ign Investment Code of the Andean Common Ma rke t. July 9. The Central Bank required a ll import pay­ ments to be made through commercial banks. August 16. The Cen tral Bank maintained unchanged its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. October 1. Supreme Decree N o. 09939 repealed the progressive travel tax. December 3. The travel taxes in force pr ior to A p r il 21, 1971 were reinstated. December 16. A new investment code, L aw N o. 10045, was enacted. It provided incentives for both domestic and foreign investments in Bo l iv i a. The exist­ ing Investment L aw (Decree N o. 07366 of October 20, 1965) was revoked. December 21. The Central Bank maintained unchanged its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA Exchange and Trade System Botswana's currency is the South A f r ican Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.09135 grams of fine gold per rand, which corresponds to R 1 = S DR 1.23. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is US$1 — R 0.75. Exchange rates are based on South A f r ica 's fixed rates for sterling against rand and on international market rates for the currencies concerned. Botswana is part of the Sterling A r ea and also forms part of the rand currency area, which comprises Botswana, Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaziland. F or purposes of exchange control over transactions in secu­ rities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Development Planning controls a ll external currency transactions. Transfers of funds within the Sterling A r ea are nor­ mally approved if the Botswana authorities are satisfied, inter alia, that Botswana is not being used by residents of other Sterling A r ea countries as a channel for trans­ fers to non-Sterling A r ea countries. Where the export of funds to a country outside the Sterling A r ea is con­ cerned, the authorities coordinate the exercise of their exchange control powers by such consultation with the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank as is necessary to ensure smooth and mutually satisfactory operation w i th in the rand currency area. Inward and outward capital trans­ fers require exchange control approval, and the rele­ vant rulings depend on whether the applicant is a for­ eign national temporarily resident, a nonresident, or a resident. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Furthermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rho- desian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. Changes during 1971 August 23. The gold parity of the rand and the exist­ ing parity relationship for the U. S. dollar of R 1 = US$1 .40 were maintained. The rand was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. December 21. The par value of the rand was changed from 1.24414 to 1.09135 grams of fine gold. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became R 1 = US$1.33 or US$1 = R 0.75. December 22. The rand was repegged from the U. S. dollar to sterling. The Reserve Bank quoted fixed exchange rates for sterling and ceased to quote fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange System On Ju ly 14, 1948, a par value for the Braz i l ian Cruze iro was established by B raz il with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. B r a z il follows a flexible exchange rate po l icy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of B r a z i l, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Central Bank operates in exchange in R io de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, and the Bank of B r a z il undertakes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the country. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un iform i ty between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effec­ tive rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase foreign exchange from the banks and to sell exchange to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transactions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 31, 1971, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary author­ ities to the public were Cr$5.600 and Cr$5 .635 per U S $ 1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U. S. dollar rates in B r a z i l. W i th specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which for the rates listed above result in effective rates within 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), (b) A 15 per cent contribu­ tion ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuigao) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (c) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, be low), which specifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period, from 1963 onward, is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of B raz i l, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of B raz il of a large 56 portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Petrobras surrenders to the Bank its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain exports of petroleum. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Va le do R io Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of B r a z i l. A ll public sector agencies carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of B r a z i l. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by other banks sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of B raz il sells foreign exchange for the require­ ments of the Government at the exchange rate prevail­ ing on the date the transaction is made. L i ke the other commercial banks, the Bank of B r a z il also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude o il and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requirements of the Vale do R io Doce Company. The Cen tral Bank handles a ll exchange transactions in bilateral currencies and exchange transactions related to imports under U. S. aid (by transferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa). The authorized banks are required to surrender to the Cen tral Bank or to the Bank of B r a z il (operating for the account of the Cen tral Bank), at the close of each business day, any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 for each branch. The Central Bank and the Bank of B r a z i l, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supply foreign exchange to author­ ized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 50 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In addition, since Ma rch 1971, exchange transactions have been permitted between banks in R io de Janeiro and banks in Sao Paulo; such transactions must be carried out by cable on a spot basis and must be executed within two working days. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to maintain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the monetary authorities. Administration of Control The Na t ional Monetary C o u n c i l, chaired by the M i n­ ister of Finance, is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Coun c i l, and under the supervision of the D irec tor in charge of Foreign Exchange Operations of the Central Bank, exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Operations Department ( G E C A M) and Department for the Con t rol and Registration of Foreign Cap i tal (F IRCE ); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also exercises approval authority over the terms of foreign financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the interministerial Foreign Loans Commission ( C E M P E X ). The Na t ional Coun c il of Foreign Trade ( C O N C E X ), chaired by the M in is ter of Industry and Commerce and established w i th in his M in i s t ry, formulates foreign trade po l icy. The M in i s t ry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of B r a z il ( C A C E X) implements the Counc i l's decisions w i th in B r a z i l. The Fore ign Trade Department issues export and import certificates (guias de export a- gdo and guias de importagao), and verifies price quota­ tions, weights, measures, classifications, and types in import operations. C A C EX also is in charge of approv­ ing import financing w i th terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute ( I B C ), wh ich is an autonomous body respon­ sible to the M in is ter of Industry and Commerce and operates w i th in the general guidelines of the Na t ional Monetary C o u n c i l. The Customs Po l icy Coun c il ( C P A ), established within the M in i s t ry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff po l icy, subject to the legal powers of the Na t ional Monetary Coun c il and the National Coun c il of Foreign Trade. The C PA also decides on changes in customs duties under the prov i­ sions of existing legislation. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of or ig in of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically pre­ scribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agree­ ment countries are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. These accounts are main­ tained with Bu lgar ia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, and Yugoslavia. There is a reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Bank of B r a z il and the Central Bank of Iceland. On the basis of provisions for the settlement of outstanding balances or transactions under the termi­ nated bilateral agreement with the U. S. S. R ., a few payments with that country are still settled in agreement dollars. A ll trade with Bo l iv i a, except Braz i l ian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros under a border trade agreement. Settlements w i th other countries with which B raz il has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U. S. dollars or other con­ vertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agreements provid­ ing for settlements through accounts denominated in B R A Z IL U. S. dollars have been signed with Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mex ico, and Peru, but those with Bo l iv ia and Ch i le have not yet come into operation. Proceeds from exports to La t in Ame r ican member countries of the Inter-American Development Bank, other than Argentina, Mex ico, and Venezuela, may be received in the currency of the importing country. Imports and Import Payments Special arrangements described below apply to imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The import of recreational boats of a value over US$3 ,500 and of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. A ll other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documentation, e.g., samples without commercial value, certain educational material, parts and accessories (valued up to the equivalent of US$3 ,000) for machinery, instruments, ships, and air­ craft, and (2) imports that require an import certificate. The bulk of imports falls into the second category. The import certificate is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information C A C EX may require. Import certificates are issued on an f. o. b. basis; as a rule, they are issued freely and without undue delay and are valid for 180 days. F or a number of specified imports in the second category, the import certificate may be obtained after the disembarkation of the commodity in B raz i l, e. g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second category the prior approval of C A C EX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies, imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instruments, machinery, and equipment. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How­ ever, the maximum period for which payments for imports may be delayed is 180 days from the date of shipment; this period may be extended to 360 days at the discretion of C A C EX for imports of raw materials, spare parts for direct use by the importer, and capital goods which are not produced domestically. F inanc ing arrangements for imports in which credit terms exceed 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. A ny bona fide interest involved in the above credit arrangements is approved freely. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled within 2 working days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B R A Z IL opened w i th in 5 work ing days from the date of the exchange contract. Commerc ial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. In certain cases, interest at about 0.5 per cent a month is charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. F or petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petro- bras concludes a "global foreign exchange contract" with the Bank of B raz il once every four months for its estimated requirements. The contract is concluded at the official market rate prevailing 10 days prior to the closing of the contract. At the same time, the Bank of B r a z il concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the "global contract" at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks; the rate applicable is again the one prevailing 10 days pr ior to the conclusion of the "global contract." Individual exchange contracts for petroleum shipments made during the life of the global contract are then closed at the exchange rate on wh ich the latter is based. Payment by Petrobras against such contracts is made in the following manner: 30 per cent of the value of an individual contract is deposited 15 days from the date of shipment, and the remaining 70 per cent 110 days after shipment. The liquidation of each individual contract 110 days after shipment is accompanied by the liquidation, up to an equivalent value, of the exchange contract signed by the Bank of B r a z il with the Central Bank; the liquidation of this latter exchange contract also takes place at the exchange rate at wh ich the contract was originally signed. F or some commodities, the application of import duties may be affected by the existence of similares nacionais or the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest­ ment L aw. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed, by virtue of an internal Central Bank measure of Septem­ ber 19, 1965, on remittances of a ll royalties and tech­ nical assistance fees (see below). Au thor ized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is subject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of G E C A M, 58 which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$1 ,000 a person a trip, without the pr ior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in bank­ notes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the remainder. App l ica t ions for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1 ,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amounts in excess of US$1 ,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of pay­ ment orders only. Foreign residents in transit in B r a z il are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in B r a z i l; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. E a ch purchase trans­ action is registered and the records of these operations, which must contain the names of clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree N o. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Fore ign Investment Law (Law N o. 4131, as amended by L aw N o. 4390 ). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for tech­ nical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at F 1 R CE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. F or foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury con­ sumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary established in B raz il to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign pr inc ipal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in B r a z il belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts from the sale or manufacture of given products for wh ich such pay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those established in Braz i l's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank­ notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by C A C EX to ensure com­ pliance with the requirements of exchange and trade regulations. Most exports are free of controls, but exports of certain commodities require prior approval of C A C E X, while exports of specified commodities are prohibited. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or payable in inconvertible currencies, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by C A C E X, and exports requiring prior authorization by govern­ ment agencies. Exports of beef are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute. The Braz i l ian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U. S. dollars per pound, f. o. b.) fixed from time to time by the Institute. The minimum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. Exporters of green coffee are required to surrender, without com­ pensation, a portion of their export proceeds in the form of a contribution quota. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are transferred to the Coffee Defense Fund. The contribution quota is set from time to time by the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute and is fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1971 it was US$21.87 per bag. The contribution quota is adjusted whenever the exchange rate is changed in order to ensure that exporters' returns in cruzeiros, at the minimum registration price, remain unchanged. Brazil makes available annually for purchase by U. S. producers of soluble coffee a specific quantity of green coffee free of the contribution quota (see below). Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, after deduc­ tion of the contribution quota, at the prevailing market rate of exchange. Thus, the effective exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on (1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U. S. dollars per pound), and (3) the free market rate of exchange. On December 31, 1971 m in i­ mum registration prices, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, were US$0 .40, B R A Z IL US$0 .39, US$0 .36, and US$0 ,345, per pound. The corresponding cruzeiro payments per bag, after deduc­ tion of the contribution quota, were C r$ 170.21, Cr$165 .82, Cr$143 .64, and Cr$132 .55. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds from coffee exports on sales at the m in imum registration price were Cr$3 ,224, C r$3 ,221, Cr$3 ,023, and Cr$2,911 per US $ 1. The effective exchange rate for coffee exports is higher to the extent that sales are made in excess of the m in imum registration price. At times, sales are permitted to be made at a negotiated discount on the world market price. Under an agreement signed in A p r il 1971 by the Government of B raz il and the Un i ted States, B r a z il agreed to make available annually, for purchase by U. S. soluble coffee producers, a specific quantity of green coffee free of the contribution quota. The quan­ tity set for the in i t ial 12-month period, from A p r il 15, 1971, was 560,000 bags. Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are not subject to the contribution quota and the exporter receives his fu ll proceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolu­ tions of the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute, a price guarantee system for exports of Braz i l ian coffee is maintained. Under these provisions a foreign importer of Braz i l ian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of B raz i l ian coffee below the level at which the importer's purchase took place. F or any shipment date, the guarantee period at present is about 60 days. The compensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the largest difference between (1) the average ICO indicator price for unwashed arabica prevailing during 9 market days, of which the fifth day is the date of export registration at the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute, and (2) the price for this coffee calculated on the basis of the highest arithmetic moving average over a period of 10 consecutive market days in the period starting on the date of shipment and ending on the thirtieth day after shipment. The compensation takes the form of a credit that the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee from B r a z i l. The credits must be used within 90 days from the date of issue. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds, and exporters of cocoa derivatives (butter, cake, and powder) are required to surrender without compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B R A Z IL A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of manufactured commodities. These incen­ tives include exemptions from indirect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption from tax l iab i l i ty. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Bank of B raz il and the commercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production for export, particularly the production of manufactures. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles are sold through the Bank of B raz il or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Cap i tal inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution N o. 63 or S U M OC Instruc­ tion N o. 289 and other financial loans in foreign cur­ rency under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law N o. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of C E M P EX is also required for borrowing by the public sector, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institutions abroad for borrowing by the private sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the national Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. Moreover, import financing with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control. F or the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with F I R C E. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an in i t ial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resi­ dent or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registra­ tion, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct invest­ ment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign 60 capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise and that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. A ny loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufacturer himself or by a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into B r a z i l. F or financed imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, that the amortization schedule is not dispropor­ tionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of or ig in. If the terms of financing are approved, C A C EX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nacionais. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered B raz il is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in B raz il and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; such profits must have been rein­ vested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Braz i l ian economy. The registra­ tion of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in B raz i l ian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The con­ version is calculated at the average exchange rate pre­ vailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. To facilitate the supply of working capital by foreign investors in B r a z i l, S U M OC Instruction N o. 289, as amended, provides for the entry of short-term foreign capital either through the Bank of B r a z il or any other authorized bank, subject to the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Approvals are limited to the amount of such loan transactions that mature during any given month. Central Bank approval guarantees the seller of the foreign exchange automatic registration at F I R CE for the purposes of the Fore ign Investment L aw, and the right of repurchase of the same amount free of any restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges that may exist. The repurchase must be a spot transaction in the free market with the Bank of B r a z il or any other authorized bank and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part after 180 days, but w i ll expire after 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Moreover, to facilitate the use of foreign credits by Brazilian enterprises, Central Bank Resolution N o. 63, as amended, authorizes private commercial and invest­ ment banks and the Na t ional Bank for Econom ic Development to take up foreign credits for relending to the domestic private sector for the purpose of financing fixed or work ing capital. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Investment L aw is furnished by F I R CE upon application. The safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to assume the exchange risk involved in these transactions. At the end of November 1971, under a new program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Coun c il imposed quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution N o. 63 and L aw N o. 4131 for which authori­ zation may be given by the Central Bank. Loans with a maturity of less than one year are not permitted to rise beyond the level outstanding on December 1, 1971; to achieve this objective, new loans in any one month are registered in amounts no greater than those maturing in that month. Loans with maturities of one year or more are permitted to rise but only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Braz i l's total external indebtedness do not depart from the path approved by the Na t ional Monetary Coun c i l. Other transfers to foreign countries require authoriza­ B R A Z IL tion by G E C A M, wh ich considers applications on their merits. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of B r a z il at the prevailing market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in B r a z i l. G o ld mining is ruled by L aw N o. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mone­ tary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. S U M OC Instruction N o. 27 of December 1948 stipulated that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the Na t ional Treasury; through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. However, this provision was in force un t il December 1962 only, and the monetary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 1 per cent. The mining tax may be offset against the other tax liabilities if and when gold is manufactured. The import of gold is sub­ ject to the issuance of an import certificate by C A C EX and is free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certificate. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1971 )x (Cruzeiros per U. S. dollar) Selling Buying 2.911-3.224 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price) 2 Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the mini­ mum registration price, for payment at sight. 4.760 (Official Market Rate less 15% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 5.320 (Official Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa derivatives. 5.600 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 5.600 (Official Market Rate) A ll other export proceeds. Other receipts. 5.635 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 5.635 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.3 Capital. * Excluding brokerage fees. -'The minimum registration price (in U . S. dollars per pound) varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. Dur­ ing 1971, exports of coffee usually took place at prices in excess of the minimum registration price. The rates shown make allowance for payment of the contribution quota, which on December 31, 1971 was US$21.87 per bag; a specified annual quantity of green coffee is sup­ plied free of contribution quota to U. S. producers of soluble coffee. :{ A different effective rate applies to certain remittances of profits and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B R A Z IL Changes during 1971 Du r ing 1971 the exchange rate was again adjusted periodically. By virtue of regulations introduced on February 24, whereby the amount of the contribution quota on coffee exports was to be expressed in foreign currency, that quota was changed each time the exchange rate changed. F r om February 24 to Decem­ ber 1971 the contribution quota was changed on eight occasions. M i n im um registration prices for coffee exports were changed twice —on February 24, when there was a substantial reduction in m in imum registra­ tion prices to a level consistent with the establishment of the contribution quota denominated in foreign cur­ rency, and again on December 8. The price guarantee system for coffee exports was suspended temporarily during February and the basis of calculation of com­ pensation under the system was amended twice, in February and A p r i l. On various dates during the year additions were made to the list of imports w i th m in imum values and to the list of imports for which reference prices had been established. January 1. Imports of machinery, industrial equip­ ment, tools, and spare parts for approved industrial projects were exempted from customs duty when there was no similar national product available. January 1. Exports of beef became subject to an annual quota of 70,000 tons. The quota was increased on M ay 20 and June 8. January 13. Decree N o. 68053 regulated the scheme of entreposto aduaneiro whereby private and public warehouses could be authorized to serve as depositories for imported and domestically produced goods, free of duties and other taxes, for a period not exceeding three years. The scheme also provided for duty-free shops at sea and air ports. January 13. Decree N o. 68054 regulated the scheme under which a firm with an approved production plan could have its production site designated as an entre­ posto industrial and cou ld import, free of duties and other taxes, raw materials and intermediate goods. January 29. The reciprocal credit agreements with Mex ico and Peru were put into effect. February 8. The Central Bank commenced foreign exchange operations in Sao Paulo. February 9. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$4 .920 and Cr$4 .950 per US$1 to Cr$5 .000 and Cr$5 .030 per U S $ 1, respectively. February 13. I BC Resolution N o. 513 suspended the price guarantee for direct exports of coffee from B r a z i l. February 24. Cen tral Bank Resolution N o. 173 spe­ cified that exporters were required to surrender without compensation a specified amount of foreign exchange per bag of coffee exported (the "contribution quo ta" ); the remaining foreign exchange was to be purchased from the exporter at the current exchange rate. The 62 amount of the contribution quota was, in future, to be announced by the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute. The requirement that commercial banks pass on to the Cen­ tral Bank 40 per cent of foreign exchange purchased from coffee exporters was abolished. Under the previous system, the exporter had received a specified quantity of cruzeiros per bag of coffee exported, which d id not vary with changes in the exchange rate. February 24. I BC Resolution N o. 517 revoked the provisions of Resolution N o. 513 (see above) and rein- stituted the system of price guarantees on exports of coffee. The guarantee was to be calculated on the basis of any change in the m in imum registration price estab­ lished for coffee type 6 or better, free of R io Zone taste. Compensation was to correspond to the difference between the m in imum registration price on the date of registration of the operation w i th the I BC and that on the thirtieth day after shipment. March 1. Decree-Law N o. 1154 established the B r a­ z i l ian Nomenclature of Goods, based on the Brussels nomenclature, and provided that B raz i l 's customs tariff would be adapted to the new nomenclature as from A p r il 30, 1971. March 12. Under G E C AM C i rcu lar N o. 100, exchange operations were permitted between banks in R io de Janeiro and banks in Sao Pau lo. Such operations had to be carried out on a spot basis and executed w i th in two work ing days. March 12. G E C AM Announcement N o. 174 stipu­ lated that insurance on imports was required to be channeled through B raz i l ian insurance companies, either in cruzeiros or foreign currency. Where an importer had difficulty in obtaining insurance cover w i th domes­ tic firms, approval would be given for insurance to be taken out w i th foreign firms. March 16. Decree-Law N o. 1158 extended, from 1971 to 1974, the concessions to exporters of manu­ factured products whereby profits earned on export sales of manufactures cou ld be deducted from taxable income for income tax purposes. March 22. The buying and selling rates of the mone­ tary authorities were changed from Cr$5 .000 and Cr$5 .030 per US$1 to Cr$5 .080 and Cr$5 .110 per US $ 1, respectively. March 22. I BC Resolution N o. 518 provided for an increase in the contribution quota on coffee exports consequent to the change in the exchange rate on M a r ch 22. Th is action established the norm that the contribution quota wou ld be adjusted each time there was a change in the exchange rate, in order to ensure that the cruzeiro proceeds accruing to exporters remained unchanged. April 2. An agreement with the Un i ted States was signed by wh ich B r a z il undertook to make available annually for purchase by U. S. soluble coffee producers a specific quantity of green coffee free of the contribu­ tion quota. The quantity of green coffee for the in i t ial 12-month perio^, from A p r il 15, 1971, was fixed at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560,000 bags. At the same time B raz il agreed to remove, as from A p r il 15, the export tax (expressed in cruzeiros and equivalent to US$0 .13 per pound) on sales of solu­ ble coffee to the Un i ted States. Shipments under this arrangement were suspended in Ju ly but registration was resumed on December 28, 1971. April 22. Central Bank Resolution N o. 182 increased, from 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the ordinary redis­ count facilities, the ceiling on commercial banks' redis­ counts for the financing of the production of manufac­ tures for export. The additional rediscount was to be used exclusively for the financing of firms holding cer­ tificates of entitlement provided by C A C EX with a value not exceeding US$200,000. April 26. IBC Resolution N o. 524 altered the price guarantee system on exports of coffee and reverted to the basis of operation of the system in force pr ior to February 13, 1971 (see above). Compensation was to be calculated on the basis of the ICO 's indicator price for unwashed arabica and was to represent the largest difference between (1) the nine-day average of prices, in which the fifth day was the date of registration with the IBC; and (2) the moving average price over a period of ten consecutive marketing days beginning on the day of shipment and ending on the thirtieth day after shipment. April 28. Decree N o. 68555 exempted from import duties goods purchased from abroad for use in the pub­ lishing industry, provided that the equipment was imported direct from the country of or ig in and that there was no similar national product. April 29. Decree-Law N o. 1169 extended, to Decem­ ber 31, 1971, the customs surcharge of 100 per cent applied to certain goods under Decree-Law N o. 398 of December 12, 1968. April 30. G E C AM Announcement N o. 180 provided that commercial banks could refinance the export of capital goods and durable consumer goods contracted for payment at more than 180 days either by means of local currency sources or through lines of credit obtained abroad. April 30. G E C AM C i rcu lar N o. I ll established that finance for exports could be provided by commercial banks up to the total cruzeiro equivalent of the exchange contract. Previously, such advances were limited 1o 80 per cent. May 3. The buying and selling rates of the mone­ tary authorities were changed from Cr$5.080 and C r $ 5 . l l0 per US$1 to Cr$5 .160 and Cr$5.195 per US$1, respectively. May 14. C O N C EX Resolution N o. 68 provided that C A C EX could finance the export of manufactured goods on a medium-term and long-term basis through the Export F inanc ing F u nd ( F I N E X ). Such financing was to include direct financing of the foreign importer for payment on demand in B r a z i l, refinancing of sales at terms in excess of 180 days, and supplementary B R A Z IL financing for production, market research, and promo­ tion and marketing abroad. F inanc ing of production through F I N EX was limited to the manufacture for export of capital goods with a high unit cost and a production cycle in excess of 180 days. May 19. C A C EX Communication N o. 343 consoli­ dated existing regulations governing imports and import procedures. It also provided that licenses were no longer required for the import of equipment, tools, spare parts for machinery, and instruments for ships and airplanes, provided the goods were for the sole use of the importer and the f.o.b. value did not exceed US$3,000 (previously US$2,000). June 2. Decree-Law N o. 1171 further extended the tax concessions to exporters of manufactures, to include sales in the domestic market of domestically produced machinery and equipment obtained in com­ petition among national and foreign products. In order to qualify for the tax incentive, such sales had to be made against payment with funds originating in foreign currencies that had been received from a loan of more than five years' maturity extended by a foreign finan­ c ial institution or foreign governmental agency. June 2. New rates of the mining tax, including the tax on gold, were approved, effective January 1, 1972. (Decree-Law N o. 1172.) June 3. G E C AM Announcement N o. 185 extended the period w i th in which the contribution quota on coffee exports must be paid to the Central Bank from two working days to ten calendar days, as from the date of settlement of the exchange contract. June 11. The buying and selling rates of the mone­ tary authorities were changed from Cr$5.160 and Cr$5.190 per US$1 to Cr$5.250 and Cr$5.285 per US $ 1, respectively. August 5. The buying and selling rates of the mone­ tary authorities were changed from Cr$5.250 and Cr$5.285 per US$1 to Cr$5.370 and Cr$5.405 per US $ 1, respectively. August 16. Dealings in foreign exchange were sus­ pended. They were resumed the next day, exclusively in U. S. dollars, and at the August 5 exchange rates. Dealings in most other currencies were resumed on August 23. September 1. The reciprocal credit agreement with Ecuador was put into effect. September 13. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$5.370 and Cr$5.405 per US$1 to Cr$5.470 and Cr$5.505 per US $ 1, respectively. September 16. The M in is ter of Finance announced that rebates would be paid to exporters of manufactures for expenditures on commissions paid abroad, subject to the authorization of the Central Bank; for freight charges on goods carried in Brazilian-owned vessels or vehicles; and for insurance premiums paid on policies with Brazilian-owned insurance companies. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B R A Z IL September 16. The M in is ter of Finance announced that exporters of manufactures could deduct from income tax liabilities their expenses incurred abroad in advertising or promotion of their products, participa­ tion in foreign trade fairs, and the maintenance of offices or depots abroad. September 24. Under Decree-Law N o. 1189 export­ ers of manufactured goods were exempted from import duties and the tax on industrial products (IPI) with respect to imports of goods valued at no more than 10 per cent of the increase in their exports over the pre­ vious year. The exemptions applied to machinery and industrial equipment and parts and accessories, raw materials, and intermediate products, effective from January 1, 1972 for a period of three years. October 1. The reciprocal credit agreements with Argentina and Co lomb ia were put into effect. November 5. G E C AM Announcement N o. 196 pro­ vided that exports to La t in Ame r ican member countries of the Inter-American Development Bank, other than Argentina, Mex ico, and Venezuela, could be settled in the currency of the country concerned. November 10. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$5 .470 and Cr$5.505 per US$1 to Cr$5 .600 and Cr$5 .635 per US$1, respectively. November 19. Exchange proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives were again made subject to a contri­ bution quota of 5 per cent. (Central Bank Resolution N o. 159 of September 10, 1970 had suspended the contribution quota on exports equivalent to 300,000 bags of cocoa beans.) November 30. The Na t ional Monetary Counc il imposed quantitative limits on the amounts of financial credits taken up abroad for which authorization could be given by the Central Bank. F inanc ial loans with a maturity of less than one year would not be permitted to rise beyond the level outstanding on December 1, 1971; new loans would be registered in amounts no greater than those maturing in that month. Outstand­ ing loans with a maturity of one year or more would be permitted to rise, but only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Braz i l's total external indebt­ edness d id not depart from the path approved by the Na t ional Monetary Coun c i l. December 7. IBC Resolution N o. 545 established quotas for exports of coffee in any form registered with the I B C, effective December 8, and covering shipments up to M a r ch 31, 1972. The Resolution also increased the contribution quota from US$20.55 to US$21.87 per bag of 60.5 kilograms. December 15. An agreement among the Braz i l ian states provided for exemption from the value-added tax ( ICM) for goods produced domestically and destined for the installation, enlargement, and re-equipment of industrial enterprises considered of national interest, when such production resulted from competition between national and foreign products and was made against payments of funds originating from converti­ ble currencies that had been derived from long-term loans extended by foreign financial institutions or for­ eign governmental agencies. The agreement also provided for the granting of a credit equivalent to the amount of the I CM exemption for those operations benefiting from exemptions from and credits for the IP I. December 20. The Cen tral Bank suspended quota­ tions on a ll foreign currencies other than the U. S. dollar; the exchange rates for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at C r$5 .600 -5 .635. Au tho r ized banks con­ tinued to deal in foreign exchange, basing their quota­ tions on those in the major foreign exchange markets abroad. Quotations were resumed on December 24, except for Argentine pesos, French francs, Japanese yen, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, and Urugua­ yan pesos. The quotation of Portuguese escudos and Spanish pesetas was resumed on December 28, and that of the Japanese yen on December 29. December 27. Decree-Law N o. 1199 amended Decree-Law N o. 1154 of M a r ch 1, 1971 and empow­ ered the Adm in is tra t ion to reduce or increase the IPI tax and to modify the basis for its calculation. December 27. C PA Resolution N o. 1204 reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent the duty established on some 250 less essential imports by Decree-Law N o. 398 of December 1968. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Bu r­ mese Kya t. The central rate is K 5.3487 per US $ 1, and Burma avails itself of wider margins. On December 31, 1971 the buying and selling rates for sterling of the People's Bank of the U n i on of Burma, the sole author­ ized dealer in foreign exchange, were 7.3402 pence and 7.0171 pence, respectively, per K l .1 The Bank's buy­ ing and selling rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the kyat-sterling rates and the London market rates for the currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue, through the Exchange Control Department of the People's Bank of Bu rma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corporation ( M E IC or Trade Corporation N o. 2 2 ). The M E IC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are determined by the Cen­ tral Trade C o u n c i l. Government agencies and depart­ ments make imports of goods for their own use, includ­ ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the M E I C. Most payments for imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Revenue. Prescription of Currency Payments to other countries may be made in any for­ eign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Bu rma. Receipts must be collected in con­ vertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annually as part of the foreign exchange budget. A ll imports are made by, or in the name of, the M E I C. A ll imports from Rho­ desia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A l so prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source— principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, play­ ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. Consumer goods imports are severely restricted. Most imports are pur­ chased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma F ive Star L ine whenever possible. A ll payments for imports are made through the People's Bank of Burma. general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Pay­ ments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely. Fam i ly remittances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is l iv ing abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Bu rma. Remittances of income resulting from investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment A ct have been suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Govern­ ment as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizen­ ship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring coun­ tries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by resi­ dents have been suspended. However, residents granted an official permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the cur­ rency of the country of destination (except India) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes or U. S. dollar notes. At present, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travel­ ers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports are effected by the M E I C. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin the conservation of which is desired for domestic requirements. A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities; the exchange must be surrendered to the People's Bank of Burma within six months from the date of shipment. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma F ive Star L ine or on vessels nominated by it. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In 1 With effect from February 7, 1972, these rates were changed to 7.1750 pence and 7.0344 pence, respectively. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren­ dered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B U R MA a ll foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Bu r­ mese currency is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Un ion of Burma Investment A c t, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the A c t. Investment proposals are to be considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise w i ll utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the eco­ nomic plans of the Government. However, no private investments have been made under the A c t; since Feb­ ruary 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Bu rma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the withdrawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the l iqu ida­ tion or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. A ll such transfers may, subject to pr ior approval, be made at the official rate of exchange pre­ va i l ing at the time of the transaction. However, transfers of capital proceeds from the voluntary liquidation of foreign companies were suspended in July 1963. A ll outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of non­ residents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require prior per­ mission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Bu rma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Bu rma. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Bu rma subject to customs declaration at the port of arr iva l. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry w i ll be repatriated. No conditions are attached, how­ ever, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Bu rma. Changes during 1971 August 23. The effective parity relationship between kyats and pounds sterling was maintained unchanged at K 11.43 = <£ stg. 1. As a result, the kyat began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the pre-August 15 parity rate for which had been K 4.76190 = U S $ 1. December 27. A central rate of K 5.3487 per US$1 was established. Bu rma availed itself of wider margins. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc and the central rate is F Bu 87.50 = US$1. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for the U. S. dollar, the interven­ tion currency, are fixed at F Bu 87.06 buying, and FBu 87.94 selling, per U S $ 1. The Bank quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc based on the fixed rates for the U. S. dollar and the official market rate for U. S. dollars in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other specified currencies 1 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Be l­ gian franc and the official market rates for the curren­ cies concerned in Brussels, or, in the cases of the Rwanda franc and the Tanzania shilling, on central rates. Au tho r ized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank; they may agree rates freely w i th their customers for certain other currencies.2 Administration of Control Con trol over foreign exchange transactions and for­ eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the central bank, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not con­ sidered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) ju r id i­ cal persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organiza­ tions. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payment in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except banknotes). A ll other debits and credits require the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tan­ zania shillings, and U. S. dollars. 2 Kenya shillings and Uganda shillings. the central bank and is restricted to (1) physical per­ sons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) pay­ ments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to F Bu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a form entitled Import License and Pay­ ment Au thor iza t ion. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. W i th certain exceptions, applications for amounts under F Bu 100,000 are approved by the author­ ized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is va l id for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month following that of validation; in special cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for certain luxury goods from private sector importers. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than F Bu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes, up to 20-65 per cent of net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profession, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an individual or a partnership. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer their fu ll net profits after taxes to their foreign nonresident stockholders, or, if the stockholders are resident foreign nationals, two thirds of profits after 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B U R U N DI taxes. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are author­ ized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners is per­ mitted after payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resident owners of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such income. Resi­ dents of Burundi nationality may purchase needed amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to F Bu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to reasonable amounts against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll exports valued at over F Bu 3,000 are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Co l lec t ion of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for certain export commodities (cotton and hides), wh ich may be certified by authorized banks. Declarations are va l id for six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destina­ tions. A ll exchange proceeds from exports must be sur­ rendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to F Bu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fulfills specified condi­ tions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other mer­ 68 chandise needed for the manufacturing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capi­ tal. In addition to these privileges, companies undertak­ ing investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities w i ll not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the M in is ter of Planning is charged with exam­ ining requests for priority status and granting the neces­ sary authorization. Cap i tal transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in any of the currencies quoted by the central bank by resident enterprises for work ing capital pur­ poses and is va l id for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the official rate of the original amount surrendered. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank. A ll other private dealing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at F Bu 100.00 a gram. After refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, w i th the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1971 March 1. Specified commodities were exempted from the 100 per cent advance deposit requirement. August 2. The Rwanda franc was included among the currencies quoted by the central bank. August 23. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was maintained at F Bu 87.50 = U S $ 1. December 30. A central rate of F Bu 87.50 = US$1 was established. Subsequently, Burundi availed itself of wider margins. The central bank's fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained, how­ ever, at F Bu 87.06 and F Bu 87.94 per U S $ 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun ( B C E A E C) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commis­ sion charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as we ll as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as we ll as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A E C, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctu­ ating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, C am­ eroon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and T e r r i­ tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Mau r i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Cameroon itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub­ ject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub- Directorate of F inanc ial Operations in the Directorate of Economic Controls, M in is t ry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of C om­ merce. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E A EC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through corre­ spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E A EC bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs when mailed direct to the Yaounde agency of the B C E A EC by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The import from a ll sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization {autorisation speciale d'importation); when these goods are imported from countries other than France or the Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r e a, they require in addition an import license. The import of rice, flour, and sugar is subject to special procedures. Other imports from France and the Opera­ tions Account countries in the French Franc A r ea do not require a license. A ll other imports are subject to licensing, but licenses are issued freely. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 25,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles * The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun- 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C A M E R O ON tries are subject to the approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per­ mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 200,000 a person a year; any for­ eign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. F or business travel to foreign countries, there is an allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation purposes. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of C F AF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro­ vided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of for­ eigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not per­ mitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 20,000 in B C E A EC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E A EC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to C F AF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of license. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected within a month of the date of arr ival at their destination and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered w i th in a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the 70 due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresi­ dent travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A E C, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a. Capital Cap i tal movements between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to foreign countries may transfer abroad their fu ll savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in C am­ eroon; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi­ ties in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun­ tries whose bank of issue is linked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. The provisions of Decree N o. 6 7 / D F / 3 6 5, which introduced these special controls, have been suspended insofar as they are con­ trary to Decree N o. 6 8 / D F / 4 6 0, on which the present exchange controls are based. A ll foreign securities, for­ eign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresi­ dents must be deposited with an authorized intermedi­ ary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. D irect investments a b r o a d2 require the pr ior approval of the M in i s t ry of F inance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest­ ment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial l iqu i­ dation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the M in is ter of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre­ viously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Fore ign direct investments in C am e r o o n3 require prior declaration to the M in is ter of F inance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the M in is ter has a period of two months from 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam­ eroon requires only reporting ex post to the M in is ter of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish­ ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest­ ment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cam- eroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical per­ sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly con­ nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ­ ing of commercial transactions either between Cam­ eroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun­ tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institu­ tions; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower, their duration does not exceed two years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical and jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical per­ sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and must sub­ sequently be reported to h im. The following are, how­ ever, exempt from pr ior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been C A M E R O ON obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly con­ nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ­ ing of commercial transactions either between Cam­ eroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun­ tries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in A p r il 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. No rma l ly, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and finan­ cial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. App roval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. New ly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the M in is ter of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 February 22. The general import program for 1971 was announced. A ll remaining import quotas were abol- 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C A M E R O ON ished. A number of commodities from a ll sources required a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importation); when these goods were imported from countries other than France and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, they required in addition an import license. The import of rice, flour, and sugar remained subject to special pro­ cedures. A ll other imports from countries outside of France and the Operations Account countries con­ tinued to require an import license, which was to be issued freely. August 28. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Cameroon. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US$1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. B C E A EC banknotes mailed to the B C E A EC by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. August 28. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. August 28. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 100,000 a person a year to C F AF 200,000 a person a year. The allocation for business travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 10,000 a day to C F AF 15,000 a day, and from a maximum of C F AF 300,000 to C F AF 450,000 for each trip. The amount of B C E A EC banknotes that travelers could take out was increased from C F AF 10,000 to C F AF 20,000, and the amount taken out was no longer deducted from the foreign exchange allocations for travel. August 28. Payments for imports from foreign coun­ tries could not take place later than three months after customs clearance. (This measure was subsequently revoked.) December 24. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Do l l a r. Since M ay 31, 1970, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within prescribed margins, and therefore a ll transactions, for the time being, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing free market rate for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1971 was Can$ 1.0021875 per US $ 1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On M a r ch 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. In implementation of UN Security Coun c il Resolution N o. 253(68) of M ay 29, 1968, payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items, inc lud ing certain cereals, for certain textile prod­ ucts, for gasoline and natural gas, and for material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some of the agricultural items, such as most dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. C om­ mercial imports of certain commodities from any source are generally prohibited; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand aircraft, certain periodi­ cals, and goods of Rhodesian or ig in. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to a ll destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to a ll destinations except the Un i ted States is under export control. A ll exports to C M EA countries and mainland Ch ina are subject to control, although certain nonstra- tegic goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under general permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical sup­ plies, news material, educational equipment and mate­ rials for use in educational institutions, and books, mag­ azines, and periodicals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Individual travelers leaving Canada may not take out more than Can$5 in silver coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi­ dents. Certain guidelines issued in 1968 apply to char­ tered banks and other financial institutions with respect to their foreign assets and liabilities and to companies incorporated in Canada w i th respect to transfers of capital to overseas countries. The M in is ter of Finance and the Bank of Canada have asked Canadian borrow­ ers to carefully explore the potentialities of the Cana­ dian market before offering securities for sale abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency G o ld M i n i ng Assistance A ct of 1948, a ll mines receiv­ ing subsidies are required to sell their newly mined gold to the Royal Canadian M in t. Af ter refining, this gold is disposed of in the free market to established whole­ sale dealers by the Bank of Canada, acting as agent for the Government. Exports of gold are subject to the following conditions: (1) exports to C M EA countries and mainland Ch ina are included among those exports subject to control and require a license from the Depart­ ment of Industry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold not of Canadian origin may only be re-exported to a country other than the Un i ted States when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits A c t; and (3) owing to the general embargo on trade w i th Rhodesia, movements of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commerc ial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1971 March 10. The Bank of Canada requested banks and financial institutions to regard transfers of Canadian dollar deposits to countries other than the United States as subject to the guidelines covering operations in for­ eign currencies. March 23. The An t i -Dump ing A ct Regulations were amended. April 24. The Government asked provincial govern­ ments and investment dealers to restrict borrowing abroad. May 25. The Export and Import Permits A ct was amended. Quantitative import controls henceforth could be applied in certain circumstances where imports were determined to be causing or threatening serious injury to Canadian producers. June 22. Measures were announced to restrain imports of certain cotton yarns. Af ter a 60-day period for consultation with supplying countries, these yarns were placed on the import control list. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C A N A DA October 4. The Government established a special fund of Can$80 m i l l ion upon which Canadian compa­ nies meeting certain conditions could draw to offset adverse effects of foreign import surtaxes on employ­ ment. November 30. Certain shirts were placed on the import control list; imports became subject to a global quota. December 16. In a further step to protect Canadian industry from the effects of foreign import surtaxes. the Government approved an increase in the funding of the general adjustment assistance program. The pro­ gram's ceilings on insured bank loans and direct loans to qualifying companies were raised by C a n $ l 50 m i l l ion and Can$16 m i l l ion, respectively. December 20. Canada announced that it intended temporarily to maintain a floating exchange rate and intended to permit fundamental market forces to estab­ lish the exchange rate without intervention except as required to maintain orderly conditions. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central A f r ican Republic has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially main­ tained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the interven­ tion currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun ( B C E A E C) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authori­ ties and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of for­ eign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A E C, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. An exchange tax of 2l/i per cent (subject to a m in i­ mum of C F AF 500) is levied on most exchange trans­ actions with, and payments to, countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. In addition to payments to the countries mentioned, the following are exempt: (1) transactions of less than C F AF 12,500; (2) all operations relating to foreign exchange receipts; (3) foreign currency allowances for travel to countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (4) government expendi­ tures in countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (5) transactions of inter­ national organizations and embassies; and (6) transac­ tions carried out with the member countries of the E E C. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, the Central A f r i c an Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Depart­ ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Repub­ lic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except the Central A f r ican Republic itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations in the M in is try of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the M in is ter of Finance, who has dele­ gated some of his approval authority to the B C E A E C ,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Adm in is tra­ tion. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is try of Mines and Geology. Prescription of Currency The Central A f r i c an Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E A EC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main­ tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs or F inanc ial Accounts in F ranc s .3 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs, related to the official exchange market, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs, related to the financial franc market. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. The import from a ll countries of flThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BCEAEC relates to (a) the con­ trol over the external position of the banks, and (b) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances. 3 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with the Sudan. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C E N T R AL A F R I C AN R E P U B L IC enameled household utensils and of textiles of qualities also produced domestically is prohibited, as is the import from Chad of beer and certain soft drinks. The import of many foodstuffs from all sources is not authorized unless local production of these commodi­ ties is inadequate. Imports of butter and cheese from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear and paints not originating in a member country of the U D E A C, may be made only in given ratios to pur­ chases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages from a ll sources require an import authoriza­ tion from the M in is t ry of the Interior, for health rea­ sons. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of o r ig in. A ll other imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea may be made freely and without an import license. A ll other imports from E EC countries also are free from quantitative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc A r ea are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character, but are not normally restricted or subject to quota, import licenses being required for statistical purposes only. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun­ tries are subject to approval. F or many types of pay­ ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac­ tion has been approved or does not require authoriza­ tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to C F AF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. A ny foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to the Central A f r ican Republic must be surrendered. F or business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed coun­ tries; the allocation is C F AF 15,000 a day, up to C F AF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country; of this allocation, an amount equiva­ lent to C F AF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank­ notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a 76 foreigner work ing in the Central A f r i c an Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 10,000 in B C E A EC banknotes, French bank­ notes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E A EC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to C F AF 50,000 in B C E A EC banknotes into foreign cur­ rency. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. A ll exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm o i l, meat, and diamonds require a license. A ll other exports to countries in the French F ranc A r ea may be made freely. A ll exports to coun­ tries outside the French F ranc A r ea require licenses, which are issued freely. The Na t ional Ma rke t ing Office for Ag r icu l tu ral Products has a monopoly over the export of agricultural products. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter generally must fall within 180 days of shipment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. A ll export trans­ actions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A E C, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a. Capital Cap i tal movements between the Central A f r i c an Republic and France, Monaco, and the other Opera­ tions Account countries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Direct investments abroad 4 require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the pr ior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest­ ment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic 5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Cen­ tral A f r ican Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign invest­ ments in the Central A f r i c an Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each opera­ tion. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com­ panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. P Including those made by companies in the Central African Repub­ lic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of foreign companies. C E N T R AL A F R I C AN R E P U B L IC with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central A f r ican Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central A f r ican Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in the Central A f r ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r i c an Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for wh ich pr ior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ­ ing of commercial transactions either between the Cen­ tral A f r i c an Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authori­ zation, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is C F AF 500,000 or less. Lend ing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in the Central A f r i c an Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r i c an Republic of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay­ ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than C F AF 500,000. Under Law N o. 62 /355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance N o. 69 /47 of September 2, 1969) and U D E AC Decision N o. 18/65 of Decem­ ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central A f r ican Republic are granted, under cer­ tain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer­ ential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C E N T R AL A F R I C AN R E P U B L IC new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Central A f r ican Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the former Equa­ torial Customs U n i o n. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favorable provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's eco­ nomic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the M in is ter of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which con­ siders the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Counc il of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Counc il of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an A ct of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Un ion upon the recom­ mendation of the Counc il of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central A f r ican Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 January 1. B C E A EC banknotes, which for some time had not been accepted for credit to nonresident accounts, could again be credited to convertible Fore ign Accounts in Francs, provided that they were mailed direct to the B C E A EC agency in Bangui by foreign correspondents of authorized banks. A f ter the intro­ duction of the dual market arrangements (see Septem­ ber entry, be low ), such banknotes could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrange­ ments were also applied in the Central A f r i c an Repub­ l ic, wh ich, however, did not formally issue any new exchange control regulations for this purpose. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, wh ich were related to the financial franc market. December 21. The exchange rate for the French franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market was changed from C F AF 277.710 = US$1 to C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value of 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee, or Cey Rs 5.95237 = US $ 1, was estab­ lished in November 1967 and the exchange rate system is based on this rate for the U. S. dollar. Another effec­ tive rate of Cey Rs 9.23 per US$1 arises from transac­ tions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (henceforth called certificates), wh ich exporters of non- traditional exports (i.e., exports other than tea, rubber, and major coconut products but including instant tea) and most other earners or recipients of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident travelers when converting foreign exchange into Cey lon rupees at the official rate may also receive either corresponding certificates or their cash value in rupees. The certificates are denomi­ nated in Cey lon rupees and are issued with a face value equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are transferable within 30 days of the date of issue and may also be surrendered to the mone­ tary authorities for encashment at a price of Cey Rs 55 per Cey Rs 100 in certificates. Add i t ional certificates are sold by the Central Bank of Cey lon upon demand and at the same price; such certificates are not transferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of foreign exchange required must be surrendered when purchasing foreign exchange for pay­ ments in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The Central Bank deals in certificates for up to four months forward, at Cey Rs 56 selling and Cey Rs 54 buying per Cey Rs 100 certificate; transactions are per­ mitted only when relating to anticipated genuine pay­ ments and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. The par value rate is applicable to receipts from major exports and to payments for most food items, fertilizers, drugs, and certain other imports (mainly of government corporations producing essential goods, small industries, and research institutes), as we ll as some invisibles. Exchange rates for sterling and Indian rupees are fixed by the Central Bank from time to time on the basis of the rates quoted for the U. S. dollar in the London market, and rates for other currencies are determined by commercial banks on the basis of quotations for those currencies in the London market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Con t rol of the Central Bank of Cey lon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is drawn up annually. A ll remittances of foreign exchange in Cey lon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in for­ eign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Con tro l ler of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for most imports of the industrial sector, both private and public, are issued by the A c tu al Users D iv is ion of the M in i s t ry of Scien­ tific Affairs. Prescription of Currency Cey lon is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and the regulations prescribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the rules of other Sterling A r ea countries. Payments to the Sterling A r ea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency, and receipts from the Sterling A rea may be accepted in any Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with nine countries with which Cey lon has bilateral payments agreements,1 with Egypt, and (for certain transactions only) with Pakistan must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments to a ll other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cey lon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Accoun t, or in the cur­ rency of the creditor country. Receipts from a ll other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Cey lon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Accoun t, in any specified currency 2 other than a Sterling A r ea currency, or in any nonspeci- fled, non-Sterling A r ea currency marketable in the Un i ted K ingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations from the general pro­ cedures require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Cey lon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Trans­ fers of balances in these accounts to Sterling A r ea Accounts or External Accounts require approval. B locked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used in Cey lon for prescribed investments. Proceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. A l so retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import 1 Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun­ gary, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Rebublic, and U. S. S. R. 2 The currency of any country of the Sterling Area, Austrian schil­ lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C E Y L ON license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Cey lon. Special Accounts may be maintained in Cey lon by Ceylonese workers abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad but the accounts may be freely debited for payments within Cey lon and income from the accounts or approved investments purchased from the accounts is exempt from income tax. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the F o od Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to the value of Cey Rs 50 for each consignment), a ll imports require individual licenses. A ll imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities, fertilizers, certain specified imports of government departments and government corporations, books and periodicals, and two-wheeled tractors. The B category includes all remaining imports. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced items are either prohibited or consid­ erably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government-spon­ sored corporations and registered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain com­ modities for their own use, subject to special authori­ zation. Imports of specified commodities 3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or L anka Salu Sala L t d .; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evidence of importation and the cost of the goods together with a va l id importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee payment; imports in the A category do not require the surrender of certificates. Import licenses for certain imports are subject to a m in imum deferred pay­ ment term. Letters of credit against such licenses may be opened provided that drafts are drawn payable not earlier than six or twelve months after the shipment in accordance with the terms of the import license. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, w i th certain exceptions, require sur­ render of certificates corresponding to the fu ll amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of cer­ tificates are (1) certain official travel expenditures abroad ,4 (2) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad, (3) remittances abroad by nonnation- als for family maintenance, (4) certain provident fund contributions and life insurance premiums, (5) pen­ sions and the final remittance, on retirement, of p rov i­ dent and pension funds, (6) expenditures of foreign embassies, official international organizations, and for­ eign diplomatic personnel, and (7) other expenditures abroad specifically exempted from the certificate sur­ render requirement by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on po l i­ cies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Cey lon is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for furloughs of nonnationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of tra­ ditional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 10 a day for a maximum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that w i ll be of posi­ tive value to the country and that are not available in Cey lon. F or study in educational institutions in "A s i an group" countries,5 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 350 a month is allowed. F or study in the United K ingdom, foreign exchange is made available at £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and £ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies, plus actual fees and cost of books. F or study in educational insti­ tutions elsewhere (other than the Un i ted States and Canada ), the maximum allowable is £ stg. 53 for undergraduate and £ stg. 70 for postgraduate studies; the maximum for the Un i ted States and Canada is US$225 and US$240 for undergraduate and postgrad­ uate studies, respectively. 3 These include rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, Ma ld ive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, masoor, dhal, dried chilies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper pro­ ducts, petroleum products, and textiles and manufactures or textile materials. 4 When met out of the budget allocations for a government depart­ ment or ministry, a state corporation, or an institution exempt from the operation of the certificate scheme. 5 The "As ian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East A f r i can region, Brune i, Bu rma, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indo­ nesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Ma lays ia, Pakistan, Persian Gu lf Sheikdoms, Saudi A r a b i a, Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, Tha i land, and Turkey. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For travel and other expenses for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Cey lon and supported by the Director of Hea l th Services that equally effective treat­ ment cannot be obtained in Cey lon; the amount author­ ized w i ll depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit <£ stg. 85 a month for a wife, £ stg. 60 for a child going to school, <£ stg. 25 for other children, and £ stg. 45 a month less monthly income abroad for an employed ch i ld, up to a maximum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. F or other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess w i ll be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary resi­ dents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Ceylonese nationals are not granted exchange for family remit­ tances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered w i th the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Cey lon currency notes and coins. Resi­ dents may take out Cey lon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all com­ mercial exports, and exports to countries with which Ceylon maintains bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. The export of some items is banned, and that of cer­ tain others requires export licenses issued by the rele­ vant government agency. Rubber exports to mainland China, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. and gem exports are under state trading. Re-exports of non­ monetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fair value for the goods has been or w i ll be received in Cey lon by approved methods of pay­ ment and, usually, within four months from the date C E Y L ON of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. Exporters of a ll goods other than tea (excluding instant tea), rubber, coconut o i l, copra, dessicated coco­ nut, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive certifi­ cates with a face value in Ceylon rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an author­ ized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these certificates as supporting docu­ ments when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the surrender of certificates. Certificates are freely transferable within 30 days from the date of issue; they have to be surrendered to the monetary authori­ ties or an authorized bank before the expiry of that period. Certificates are not transferable thereafter, but the holders can use them when making foreign exchange payments within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Exporters of precious stones receive, in addition to certificates as indicated above, licenses to import raw materials (other than gold) for the jewelry industry corresponding to 25 per cent of their export receipts. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following headings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) private transfers and donations; and (5) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by- case basis, by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates correspond­ ing to the amount of foreign exchange converted with authorized dealers; alternatively, the latter may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the for­ eign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Cey lon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Ceylon notes in denominations of Cey Rs 10 or less may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj­ ects which are specifically approved by the Gove rn­ ment, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Cey lon, in prescribed Ceylonese invest­ ments, including shares of public companies incorpo­ rated in Cey lon; capital transfers for direct investment 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C E Y L ON in Cey lon are entitled to receive certificates upon con­ version of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appre­ ciation; transfers require surrender of certificates. P ro­ ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in prescribed investments; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. N ew foreign investments in Cey lon that are con­ sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment App roval Committee of the M in is t ry of Planning and Employment are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by res­ idents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the pr inc ipa l, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, if directed by the Central Bank, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to pre­ scribed limits, the transfer of their net income is allowed for one year from the date of emigration, after deduction of any income being earned abroad, if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizen­ ship, net income may be transferred, within certain limits, even after one year. Repatriates leaving Cey lon for residence in the coun­ try of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. For persons who have been in business in Cey lon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to certain limits. Transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires sur­ render of certificates; exempt are (1) balances on prov i­ dent and pension funds held abroad and representing contributions in respect of contractual obligations entered into before M ay 6, 1968, (2) provident and pen­ sion funds held in rupees in Cey lon, and (3) the value of insurance policies held abroad and taken out before M ay 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Cey lon and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Con tro l ler of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. 82 The People's Bank is the sole importer of gold. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers at the equivalent of US$84 an ounce. Small quantities are also sold to hospitals. Commerc ial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1971 January 18. Import duty rebates ranging from 3 per cent to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value were permitted for specified industrial exports. January 21. The Foreign Exchange Amnesty A ct was passed (A ct N o. 1 of 1971). Under the terms of the A c t, the repatriation of funds held abroad without exchange control permission by residents was free of both income tax and exchange control inquiries. The certificate rate was applicable to the funds so remitted to Cey lon. February 3. Au thor ized dealers were required to refer for prior approval applications for letters of credit against import licenses providing for deferred payment terms where the rate of interest payable exceeded the bank rate in the country of supply by more than 2 per cent per annum. February 6. A scheme of "special accounts" was introduced in order to mobilize small savings from Ceylonese workers abroad whereby commercial banks were permitted to open such accounts when foreign exchange remittances were received. These remittances continued to be eligible for Foreign Exchange Entitle­ ment Certificates. Accounts could be maintained in local currencies as fixed deposits or savings deposits, and they were eligible for interest at the rate applicable to such deposits. Funds in the accounts could also be invested or disbursed locally without l im i ta t ion. Income accruing from these accounts and investments made through these accounts with the approval of the Cen­ tral Bank were exempt from income tax. February 25. A ll applications for foreign exchange for the import of nylon and other synthetic yarn required the pr ior approval of the Con tro l ler of Fo r­ eign Exchange. March 9. The right to export gems was vested exclu­ sively in the newly established State G em Corpora t ion. March 9. An act providing for the establishment of a state-owned shipping firm, the Cey lon Shipping Corporation, was passed. March 17. A ll exports to Egypt through the Cey lon- Egypt clearing account required letters of credit estab­ lished by banks in Egypt and confirmed by the Cen­ tral Bank of Cey lon. March 24. The Exchange Con t rol A ct was amended (A ct N o. 17 of 1971). Possession of foreign currency by any person without the permission of the Cen tral Bank was prohibited. A new part was introduced in the A ct containing provisions of control of foreign assets held by persons or residents in Cey lon. In particular, the opening, maintaining, and closing of accounts without ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the permission of the Central Bank was prohibited. A l s o, all persons or residents in Cey lon who held or acquired foreign assets were required to give fu ll particulars relating to such assets and not to dispose of such assets without the permission of the Central Bank. April 30. Au thor ized dealers were permitted to approve applications for the export of crepe rubber, provided the export was licensed by the Commissioner of Commodity Purchase. April 30. The requirement of m in imum deferred pay­ ments terms for private sector imports of industrial raw materials, machinery spare parts, and packing materials was raised from 6 months to 12 months for certain import payments. A l s o, the l im it of Cey Rs 50,000 on spot payments for such imports was revised. Spot payments were permitted up to Cey Rs 200,000 for raw materials, Cey Rs 5,000 for machinery spare parts, and Cey Rs 10,000 for packing materials. Payments in excess of these l im i ts were subject to 6-month or 12-month terms. Payments for machinery spare parts rials, payments from Cey Rs 200,000 to Cey Rs 900,000 were subject to 6-month terms and thereafter to 12-month terms. Payments for machinery spare parts and packing materials in excess of Cey Rs 5,000 and Cey Rs 10,000 were subject to 12-month terms. Import licenses were issued in accordance with these payments requirements. Letters of credit for up to 12 or 18 months were permitted against import licenses subject to 6-month or 12-month payments terms, respectively, provided that drafts were made payable not earlier than the prescribed periods. July 1. A l loca t ions of foreign exchange for imports of books and subscriptions to magazines and periodi­ cals for personal use were permitted up to Cey Rs 50 and Cey Rs 100, respectively, for each applicant. C E Y L ON July 18. Exporters were required to obtain the ap­ proval of the Director of Commerce before entering into a contract of sale with the bilateral payments countries, and to ensure that the goods would not be resold or transshipped either in whole or in part to any country other than authorized. August 23. The Cey lon rupee remained pegged to sterling at the pre-August 15 rate. The exchange rates for the U. S. dollar and the Indian rupee also were maintained at pre-August 15 levels, as was the price of foreign exchange entitlement certificates. September 30. Remittances by shipping companies and airline agents in Cey lon were permitted only in U. S. dollars. November 8. The Cey lon rupee was pegged to the U. S. dollar at the par value rate of Cey Rs 5.95237. The buying and selling spot rates for pounds sterling and Indian rupees were to be quoted by the Central Bank on the basis of London market quotations for the U. S. dollar. Exchange rates for other currencies were to be determined by commercial banks on the basis of the Central Bank's rates for sterling and L o n­ don market quotations for these currencies. November 10. Remittances of foreign companies in respect of head office expenditures were disallowed. However, profits of foreign companies, including any amounts that otherwise might have been earmarked for head office expenditures, might be transferred in fu l l, subject to payment of company taxes. November 19. The requirement was withdrawn that remittances of collections of foreign-owned vessels and aircraft to the owners by their agents in Cey lon be effected in U. S. dollars. December 20. The exchange rate system established on November 8 and exchange regulations and practices were maintained unchanged. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun ( B C E A E C) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the finan­ c ial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A E C, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Repub­ l i c, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Chad itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub l ic Accounts in the M in is t ry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues 1 The C FA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 84 import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the M in is ter of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Finance, except those for gold. (Early in 1972, the Directorate-General mentioned above was abolished and the Office of the M in is ter of Finance became responsible for the exchange controls.) Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the F rench F ranc A r e a, since the B C E A EC maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle­ ments w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury. Settlements with the U. S. S. R. are made through special accounts estab­ lished in accordance with a payments agreement. Settle­ ments with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in F rench francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E A EC bank­ notes may be credited freely to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs maintained by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks, provided that the notes are mailed direct to the B C E A EC agency in Chad by the corre­ spondent banks concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. A ll other imports from countries in the French F ranc A r ea and from E EC countries other than France may be made freely. A ll imports from n o n - E EC countries outside the French F ranc A rea are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. Th is program and the amount of for­ eign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Chadian Committee. The import program contains global quotas for imports from n o n -EEC countries outside the French F ranc A r ea and a special quota for imports of cot­ ton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French F ranc A r ea (the L iby an Arab ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Republic, N ige r ia, and the Sudan) up to a value of C F AF 3 m i l l ion a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation trans­ actions. A ll import transactions valued at C F AF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle import­ ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Fo rwa rd cover for imports from foreign coun­ tries is only permitted for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub l ic Accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun­ tries are subject to approval. F or many types of pay­ ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans­ action has been approved or does not require authoriza­ tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per­ mitted freely when bona fide. F or tourist travel, resi­ dents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Chad must be surrendered. F or business travel to for­ eign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of up to C F AF 400,000 a person a trip; the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub l ic Accounts may issue exceptional allocations in excess of C F AF 400,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign coun­ tries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 10,000 in B C E A EC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E A EC banknotes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than C F AF 5,000 in C FA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 100,000; they may reconvert into foreign currency B C E A EC banknotes up to C F AF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of payments that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohib­ ited. A ll exports to n o n -EEC countries outside the French Franc A r ea require licenses. Specified exports to the L ibyan A r ab Republic, N ige r ia, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. C H AD Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export pro­ ceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for­ eign currency surrendered, within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A E C, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other for­ eign means of payment. Capital Cap i tal movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capi­ tal transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. A ll foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso­ far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lend­ ing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or introduc­ tion of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i­ tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. D irect investments abroad - require the prior ap­ proval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the - Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C H AD form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad 3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase result­ ing from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa­ tion that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or for­ eign investments in Chad, must be reported to the M i n­ ister of Finance within 20 days following each opera­ tion. D irect investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro­ vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chad ian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver­ tising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M i n­ ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con­ nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ­ ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans con­ tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out­ standing of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l­ l ion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and 3 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 86 each repayment thereon, must be declared to the M i n­ ister of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of a ll loans contracted abroad by the borrower is C F AF 5 m i l l ion or less. Lending abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose regis­ tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay­ ment thereon, must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than C F AF 500,000, pro­ vided, however, that the total outstanding amount of a ll loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed C F AF 5 m i l l ion. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp­ tion from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat­ ment, in accordance w i th wh ich certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci­ fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the M in is ter of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commis­ sion. After an opinion has been given by that Commis­ sion, the project is submitted to the Coun c il of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued a gold coin of C F AF 10,000 which is legal tender. Ordinance N o. 3 / P R / TP of February 10, 1968 concerning nonmonetary gold (ratified by Law N o. 23 of June 4, 1968), in conjunction with the rele­ vant exchange control regulations, governs the holding, sale, import, circulation, export, and processing of gold and diamonds. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless they have obtained an authorization issued by the President on the advice of the M in is ter of M ines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require pr ior authorization by the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts and by the Directorate of M ines and Geology as well as the visa of the Directorate of Fore ign Trade. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con­ taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of diamonds are usually made by approved Offices for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports ( B A V I E ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 March 17. Chad informed the G A IT that it had ceased to invoke A r t i c le X X XV of the G A TT in respect of Japan. August 18. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. September 3. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrange­ ments were introduced in Chad. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = U S $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, wh ich were related to the financial franc market. B C E A EC banknotes mailed to the B C E A EC C H AD by foreign correspondents of authorized banks hence­ forth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 3. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 150,000 a person a trip, for two trips a year, to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip. The maximum amount of the special allocation for business travel was increased from C F AF 300,000 to C F AF 400,000. September 3. The exchange allocations for transfers by emigrants and transfers of dowries were increased. September 3. Residents acquiring the status of non­ residents after residing abroad for more than two years could transfer a ll their assets abroad. September 3. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. October 19. Imports from foreign countries required domiciliation when their value was C F AF 100,000 or more. December 24. The exchange rate for the French franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Ch i lean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Ch i lean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the Banco del Estado, author­ ized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either market and only the Central Bank, the Banco del Estado, and certain government-owned commercial banks operate in the brokers' market. There are mu l t i­ ple exchange rates in both markets. Outward transfers through both markets are controlled. Through the banking market pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, receipts from a few invisibles, and pay­ ments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and some capital transactions pass through the brokers' market. In general, capital trans­ actions are entitled to the same exchange market treat­ ment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Transactions in the banking market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for imports of most commodities, forward exchange purchases are mandatory and export proceeds may be sold forward. F or both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. There is some restriction on the availability of exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (70 days on Decem­ ber 31, 1971). On December 31, 1971 the buying rates in the bank­ ing market were E° 15.80 per US$1 for export pro­ ceeds, exchange accruals to the Government and public entities, and receipts from specified invisibles, and E° 19.00 per US$1 for certain capital receipts and receipts from specified other invisibles. The selling rates in the banking market (including banking commissions) were E° 12.23 per US$1 for payments for imports of foodstuffs and hydrocarbons and related current inv is i­ bles; E° 15.80 per US$1 for government transactions; E° 15.83 per US$1 for payments for imports of indis­ pensable raw materials and intermediate goods and related invisibles, as well as for payments for specified other invisibles; E° 19.04 per US$1 for payments for imports of machinery and spare parts, other raw mate­ rials, and manufactured products, and invisibles related 88 to these imports, as well as for profit and dividend remittances, and for interest, amortization, and capital repatriation on nonofficial loans and investments which have entered through the banking market and for payments for specified other invisibles; and E° 25.05 per US$1 for payments for imports of luxury goods and related invisibles. The rate in the brokers' market (including banking commissions) was E° 28.00 buying, and E° 28.06 sell­ ing, per U S $ 1; the selling rate, however, is subject to certain exchange taxes. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market by nonbanks for payments and remit­ tances that may be effected without specific authoriza­ tion (in the form of a solicitud de giro) from the Central Bank are subject to a 53.15 per cent exchange tax. The retransfer through the brokers' market of foreign capital and interest and profit remittances thereon are subject to a basic exchange tax of 18.15 per cent plus a variable exchange tax equal to the percentage increase in the consumer price index from August 1970 to the day before payment is effected. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances subject to pr ior authorization (solicitud de giro) are subject to an exchange tax of 0.15 per cent. A m ix ing rate is applied to Ch i lean shipping com­ panies' receipts of foreign exchange, 85 per cent having to be sold in the banking market and 15 per cent in the brokers' market. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of International Transactions of the Central Bank of Ch i le are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and a ll imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Copper Corporation, which is super­ vised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Imports for the public sector are supervised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Pub l ic Sector, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ch i le and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. F or imports, pay­ ment in U. S. dollars is permitted for goods of any origin and is mandatory for imports from the United States and imports from La t in Ame r ican countries with which reciprocal credit agreements are in force; pay­ ment in sterling is permitted for imports from the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution United K ingdom, Commonwealth countries, and socialist countries (including Cuba); Canadian dollars, Belgian francs, Swiss francs, deutsche mark, Nether­ lands guilders, and Japanese yen may be used to pay for imports from the country issuing the currency concerned. Export proceeds may be received in U. S. dollars only when stemming from sales to the United States or to L a t in Ame r ican countries with which reciprocal credit agreements are maintained. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in Canadian dollars, Netherlands guilders, Belgian francs, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, or Japa­ nese yen. Cer ta in payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Po land are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll imports, except those of the large mining com­ panies and imports of defense materials, must be regis­ tered w i th the Central Bank. Imports are divided into four categories (Lists A to D) according to which of the four selling rates in the banking market applies. There is a L i st of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported (for some of these goods) through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless they are on Chile's Na t ional L ist nego­ tiated w i th in L A F T A, or are imported from Andean Pact countries. A wide range of commodities may be considered as effectively prohibited for private importa­ tion since, although on the L i st of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent unless they are imported by public sec­ tor agencies, originate in Andean Pact countries, are imported under a special regime, or are on the Na t ional List and originate in a L A F TA country; the Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may grant specific exemptions. Goods may normally be imported in any amount. The Cen tral Bank, however, is empow­ ered to reject import applications (registrations), except those for goods covered by special laws, for any item on the Permitted L ist if the total value of applications for imports in the previous month exceeds by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject registration for all commodities listed under the same customs tariff heading. Th is power has not been invoked since Janu­ ary 1966.1 Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones, such as A r i c a, Magallanes, Aysen, and Ch i loe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodi- C H I LE ties (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may not purchase exchange un t il 50 days after the goods have been shipped. F or specified com­ modities, importers must, between 50 and 60 days after shipment, purchase forward exchange corresponding to the fu ll registered value of the import against immediate cash payment in local currency once the goods have been cleared through customs; these goods may not be paid for before customs clearance. F or supplementary lists of imports there are extended mandatory exchange cover periods of 120, 210, 240, and 360 days. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent on the c. i. f. value. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is per­ mitted for a few commercial invisibles; a ll other inv is i­ bles are settled through the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to fares; a ll limits 2 are per person per journey, with a 30-day waiting period between trips, and subject to an annual l im it of US$540 for a ll travel exchange taken up by any one person; the allocations for children under seven are half the amounts listed below, and a ll allocations are subject to tax at a rate of 53.15 per cent) the equivalent of US$60 for travel to destinations w i th in 500 kilometers of the Chilean border (defined to include a ll of Argentina except the cities of Buenos A i res, Bah ia Blanca, and Comodoro Rivadavia) subject to a maximum of US$15 a day; the equivalent of US$180 for travel to other parts of La t in Ame r ica (defined as including the Bahama Islands, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto R ico ), with a maximum of US$20 a day; the equivalent of US$360 for travel to Canada and the United States, with a maximum of US$30 a day; the equivalent of US$540 for travel to countries outside the Western Hemisphere, with a maxi­ mum of US$30 a day; for family remittances US$100 a month for each beneficiary, with an annual maximum of US$600 for each beneficiary; for purchases of books US$50 a person a month; for subscriptions to periodi­ cals US$200 a person a year; and for student registra­ tion fees US$50 a person a year. Banks may sell up to US$1 ,200 a person a year for payment of insurance premiums contracted prior to November 20, 1970 in foreign currency with national insurance companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Ch i le. Transfers of other insurance premiums require the approval of the Central Bank, which acts on the advice of the Superintendent of Insurance. Payments for medi­ cine and pharmaceutical products may only be made provided that the product in question is not available in a For the year 1972 a global import budget has been prepared and an administrative import licensing system will be operated for all imports. - Up to 10 per cent of the relevant amount may be sold in foreign banknotes, the rest in negotiable instruments. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C H I LE Ch i le. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those for respect of other transactions, require the prior authori­ zation of the Central Bank and are not normally approved. A ll purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a transfer application (solicitud de giro), are subject to a tax of 53.15 per cent; the only documenta­ tion required for invisibles that are neither covered by the approval authority delegated to authorized banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an application form (carta peticion) addressed to the Central Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Ch i le, when traveling to countries outside La t in Ame r ica, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 360 a trip. Resident travelers may take out 20 per cent of their travel allocation in Chilean bank­ notes, subject to registration of their exportation with the Central Bank. The export of Ch i lean banknotes by nonresident travelers is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th minor exceptions for humanitarian reasons, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South A f r i ca also are pro­ hibited. Add i t iona l ly, exports of some items are pro­ hibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destina­ tion. A ll exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports are subject to surrender requirements. Exporters, when submitting an export registration to the Central Bank, are required to furnish at the same time a power of attorney entrusting the Central Bank or any authorized commercial bank with the collection of export proceeds. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require­ ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank; other proceeds may be sold forward between 60 days before shipment and 10 days before expiration of the obligatory surrender period. By virtue of Law N o. 16528 of 1966, many minor exports receive refunds of taxes and other charges included in their cost of production. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communica­ tions agencies' fees, from specified transactions by national insurance companies, from commissions, from reimbursements of insurance claims, and from credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking market. Exchange received in payment for personal services rendered by residents must be surrendered at the brokers' market rate; how­ 90 ever, foreign nationals who have been resident in Ch i le less than two years may retain 50 per cent of such remittances in foreign currency accounts with the Banco del Estado. Exchange derived from other invisi­ bles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. The delivery by banks to residents of foreign exchange transferred from abroad is subject to prior Central Bank authorization. Travelers must declare a ll foreign currency held on entry. Tourists must change into local currency a m in imum of US$10 for each day of stay (US$5 for minors); tourists from neighboring countries must change into local currency at least US$8 a day (US$4 for minors) if their stay exceeds seven days. U p on exit only escudos in excess of the m in imum daily quotas may be reconverted into foreign currency. The import of Chilean banknotes is subject to a 10,000 per cent pr ior import deposit requirement. Capital Cap i tal may be brought into Ch i le through either exchange market; no capital can flow out freely through either market. No rma l ly, capital is subject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry; this po l icy applies also to remittances of dividends and profits on the capital. Ch i le has ratified the Andean Group's Cartagena Agreement and in principle limits transfers of profits, dividends, and interest on foreign capital to 14 per cent per annum. Foreign capital may enter Ch i le under one of three different arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. A ll new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank. (1) A r t ic le 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely in the brokers' market through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) has registered with the Central Bank. Such capital may only be repatriated through the brokers' market with the prior approval of the Central Bank. The same is true for the transfer of interest and profits on such capital. A ll capital repatriation under A r t ic le 14 of the above Decree is subject to an exchange tax consisting of a basic tax of 18.15 per cent plus a variable tax equal to the per cent increase in the con­ sumer price index since August 1970 to the day before the retransfer is effected. Repatriation is only allowed in accordance with the amortization schedule established upon registration. (2) Acco rd ing to A r t i c le 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agreement with a Ch i lean ind iv idual or corporation, or into an agreement with a national enterprise with a view to capital par­ ticipation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the banking market and the brokers' market; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Central Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an appli­ cation and extension of A r t ic le 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank of November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to further foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatria­ tion may take place in the banking market, provided that the amount repatriated is financed from the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the investment. The regime is implemented through individual invest­ ment agreements in accordance w i th A r t i c le 16. Repa­ triation of the invested capital may start 2 years after entry and may amount to 121/-* per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of inter­ est or profits is permitted annually up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the transfer of the full amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are granted only to firms that w i ll not purchase foreign exchange in the banking market to acquire abroad any machinery, equip­ ment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a further extension of the regime under A r t ic le 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guarantee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earnings on, imported capital, provided that certain conditions were met. These were (a) the invest­ ment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repatriation must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumulative basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Ch i lean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which estab­ lishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee studies the proposal and the M in is t ry of Economy approves by decree the particular investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption from payment of certain import surcharges, C H I LE customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (normally the banking market) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export proceeds of his investment. Decision N o. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement is con­ sidered to override any contrary provisions of Decree- Law N o. 258 and of Articles 14 and 16 of Decree N o. 1272. Gold Ch i le has issued four gold coins, which are legal tender. New ly mined gold is purchased from the pro­ ducers by Empresa Nac ional de M in e r ia ( E N A M I ), which, after refining, sells it to the Central Bank. The latter has this gold coined at the M i n t. The Central Bank makes gold available to industrial users in the form of Chilean gold coins at E° 50 a gram. The Central Bank has exclusive power to purchase, sell, negotiate, or transfer gold in any form for any purpose, except in the form of jewelry. A ll import and export of gold contained in minerals is subject to special authorization by the Central Bank. G o ld bars are imported and exported only by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire for industrial use is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement; the import of gold coins is not normally permitted. Changes during 1971 Du r ing 1971 the scope of the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit was gradually increased, to cover an estimated minimum of 60 per cent of total 1971 import value. Ad hoc exemptions from the requirement were granted, however, for certain private sector import transactions. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for sales of exchange to commercial banks in respect of import payments remained at 56 days un t il mid-1971, when the period was progressively extended to 65 days and finally to 70 days. January 1. L aw N o. 17382 of October 30, 1970 came into force. It established a tax of 8 per cent on the customs value of goods imported through Ch i loe. The law also created new import privileges for the provinces of Ch i loe, Aysen, and Magallanes. January 1. Contracts denominated in foreign cur­ rencies for personal services rendered by Chilean nationals or by foreign nationals who had been in Ch i le for a cumulative period of more than two years had to be paid in escudos at the brokers' market rate. Foreign nationals who had been resident in Ch i le less than two years could receive remuneration in foreign currency, provided that the beneficiary sold in the brokers' market each month 50 per cent of his receipts and provided that the foreign currency was deposited w i th the Banco del Estado; such deposits could only 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C H I LE be used to make remittances abroad or to sell foreign exchange in the brokers' market. The Central Bank was authorized to grant exemptions. This regulation was complementary to Law N o. 15192. January 18. Commerc ial banks henceforth required prior authorization by the Central Bank to contract credit or refinancing abroad, to pay in foreign currency or in documents expressed in foreign currency any k ind of draft or remittance received from abroad, and to pay or deliver foreign currency or documents expressed in foreign currency in connection with total or partial withdrawals of deposits in foreign currency. March 9. The tax on purchases of exchange in the brokers' market was raised from 15.15 per cent to 33.15 per cent. Exempt from this tax were the acquisi­ tion of foreign exchange by the Central Bank and commercial banks for their own account, purchases of exchange for student maintenance abroad, and pur­ chases of exchange for the retransfer abroad of foreign capital and loans registered with the Central Bank (aporte de capital). March 12. Retransfers abroad of capital which entered the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) became subject to a basic tax of 18.15 per cent plus a variable exchange tax equal to the percentage increase in the consumer price index between August 1, 1970 and the date before the day on wh ich the retransfer of funds was effected. A pril 6. Exchange allocations for travel abroad within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border were reduced from US$100 (a maximum of US$25 a day) to US$60 (US$15 a day) a person a trip, and from US$300 (US$30 a day) to US$200 (US$20 a day) a person a trip for travel to other parts of La t in Ame r ica. April 12. Regulations were issued allowing imports of automobile parts only to the extent that they were offset within a specified period by equivalent exports made by the importing firm. April 19. Persons receiving an exchange allocation for medical expenses abroad were required to open a bank guarantee in favor of the Central Bank in the value of 200 per cent of the medical expenditure authorized. Unless the expenditure was satisfactorily documented after return to Ch i le, the bank guarantee was forfeited. April 28. A large number of commodities were made subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit, except when they were of L A F TA or ig in. April 29. Henceforth only the Central Bank, the Banco del Estado, and certain commercial banks owned by the State were permitted to effect exchange trans­ actions in the brokers' market. May 12. The proceeds from exports to the Federal Republic of Germany henceforth had to be received in deutsche mark. May 20. F or purposes of travel exchange allocations, the area within 500 kilometers of the Ch i lean border was defined to include all of Argentina, except the 92 cities of Buenos A i res, Bahia Blanca, and Comodoro R ivadav ia. Excess exchange allocations resulting from travel to destinations other than previously indicated or from trips shorter than anticipated had to be sold to the commercial banks. June 30. Decree N o. 482 of the M in i s t ry of External Affairs was published in the Official Gazette; it approved Decisions No s. 24 and 37 of the Andean Group's Car­ tagena Agreement. July 11. By virtue of a constitutional amendment, the large copper mines were nationalized. July 14. The total amount of travel exchange alloca­ tions that cou ld be taken up by any resident not receiv­ ing a salary in foreign currency was limited to US$540 a year. The travel exchange allocation for travel to La t in Ame r ican destinations not within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border was reduced from US$200 (US$20 a day) to US$180 (US$20 a day) a person a trip; the travel exchange allocations for travel to Canada and the Un i ted States were reduced from US$480 (US$30 a day) to US$360 (US$30 a d a y ); the travel exchange allocation for travel to non-Western Hem i­ sphere destinations was reduced from US$720 (US$30 a day) to US$540 (US$30 a d ay ). July 26. The exchange rate in the brokers' market was depreciated from E° 14.33 per US$1 to E° 28.00 per US$1 (buy ing ). July 26. The Cen tral Bank increased the domestic price of gold from E ° 2 3 t o E ° 5 0a gram. July 26. Henceforth, 85 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of Chilean shipping companies had to be sold in the banking market and 15 per cent in the brokers' market. Previously, these earnings were sold entirely in the banking market. July 28. To obtain exchange allocations for medical payments abroad a bank guarantee note was required equivalent to between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of the escudo value of the foreign currency authorized. July 28. The Central Bank approved the terms of a new bilateral payments agreement with Po land. (Settle­ ments through the special accounts established under the agreement became mandatory with the issuance of C i rcu lar N o. 1656 on February 17, 1972.) August 5. The Central Bank set standard periods w i th in which importers must enter into contracts with commercial banks for the deferred delivery of foreign exchange for import payments. These maximum periods ranged from 60 days for most commodities to 360 days for certain essential goods. Importers could not enter into such contracts before 50 days had elapsed after the date of shipment, and presentation of the customs clearance certificate was required. August 23. The rates for the U . S. dollar in both exchange markets were maintained unchanged. August 25. A large number of commodities became subject to the 10,000 per cent pr ior import deposit. August 26. Export proceeds henceforth could be received in U . S. dollars only when stemming from sales ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the Un i ted States or to L a t in Amer ican countries with which Ch i le maintained reciprocal credit agree­ ments. Proceeds from other exports had to be received in Canadian dollars, Netherlands guilders, Belgian francs, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, or Japanese yen. August 30. Except under special circumstances, banks' sales of exchange in the brokers' market were limited to U. S. dollars. F or travel to La t in Ame r ica, however, the currency portion of the travel exchange allocation could be sold in the currency of the country of destination. September 6. Escudo credit granted by Ch i lean banks to foreign-owned companies had to be repaid within 12 months. Such lending became subject to prior approval by the Cen tral Bank of the borrowing com­ pany's financial planning. September 9. A ll imports for the automobile industry became subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit. September 13. Tourists entering Ch i le were required to declare a ll foreign currency held on entry and to change into local currency a m in imum of US$10 for each day of stay for persons 18 years of age or older (US$5 a day for persons under 18 years). Upon exit, only escudos in excess of the prescribed m in imum con­ version amounts could be reconverted into foreign cur­ rency. September 23. Tourists from neighboring countries were required to change into local currency at least US$8 a day (US$4 a day for m inors), if their stay exceeded seven days. F or shorter stays these amounts remained US$10 and US$5, respectively. September 29. The Central Bank issued new regula­ tions concerning the surrender requirements for export proceeds. When submitting an export registration to the Central Bank, exporters were required to furnish a power of attorney entrusting the collection of the export proceeds to the Central Bank or any authorized com­ mercial bank. September 30. The prescription of currency for imports was revised. Payment in U. S. dollars was permitted for imports of any origin and was manda­ tory for imports from the United States and imports from La t in Ame r ican countries under reciprocal credit agreements; pounds sterling could be used for imports from the Un i ted K ingdom, Commonwealth countries, and socialist countries (including Cuba); Canadian do l­ lars, Belgian francs, Swiss francs, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, and Japanese yen could be used for imports from the country issuing the currency con­ cerned. October 22. A large number of commodities were added to the list of permitted imports; most were made subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit. A large number of other commodities were eliminated from the L ist of Permitted Imports and certain other items on the L ist of Permitted Imports were redefined; C H I LE most of the latter also became subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit. October 28. Foreign exchange for payments abroad in respect of international communications charges had to be purchased in the brokers' market. October 28. A large number of commodities became subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit. October 30. Decree N o. 1742 of October 5, 1971 (published on October 29) made imports of domestic banknotes subject to a customs duty of 1,000 gold pesos per gram net. October 30. Imports of Chilean banknotes became subject to the 10,000 per cent prior import deposit; both imports and exports of Chilean banknotes became sub­ ject to registration at the Central Bank. December 6. The foreign exchange markets in Chile were closed. They reopened on December 10. December 10. The exchange rates in the banking market (previously E° 12.21 buying, and E° 12.23 sell­ ing, per US$1) were depreciated, while those in the brokers' market remained unchanged at E° 28.00 buy­ ing, and E° 28.06 selling, per US $ 1. Exchange opera­ tions in the banking market were conducted at the following exchange rates. On the buying side, all export proceeds, a ll exchange accruals to the Government and public entities, and specified receipts from invisibles were settled at E° 15.80 per US $ 1; capital receipts under Ar t ic les 15 and 16 of Decree N o. 1272 and under Decree-Law N o. 258 (when channeled through the banking market) and specified receipts from inv is i­ bles were settled at E° 19.00 per U S $ 1. On the selling side, payments for imports of foodstuffs and hydro­ carbons and for invisibles related to such imports were settled at E° 12.23 per US$1; government transactions were settled at E° 15.80 per US$1; payments for imports of indispensable raw materials and intermediate goods and for invisibles related to such imports, as well as payments for specified other invisibles, were settled at E° 15.83 per US $ 1; payments for imports of machinery and spare parts, raw materials not consid­ ered indispensable, and certain manufactured products, and payments for invisibles related to a ll these imports, as well as profit and dividend remittances, interest, amortization and repatriation of nonofficial loans and investments which had entered through the banking market, and payments for certain other specified invisi­ bles, were settled at E° 19.04 per U S $ 1; payments for imports of luxury goods and for invisibles related to such imports were settled at E° 25.05 per US $ 1. December 10. The commercial banks henceforth could buy and sell foreign currency as agents of the Central Bank only and could no longer take positions for their own account. Transactions had to be covered with the Central Bank daily. December 10. Foreign shipping companies were required to use foreign exchange in payment of a ll obligations incurred in Ch i le. December 10. The system whereby commercial banks 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C H I LE bought exchange forward from exporters was termi­ nated. A ll exports became eligible for financing through preshipment and /or postshipment export credits. December 13. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for sales of import exchange to commercial banks was extended from 65 days to 70 days. December 17. The system of export finance revoked on December 10 was reinstituted. Commerc ial banks were temporarily authorized to buy exchange forward from exporters at E° 15.80 per U S $ 1, with a maximum delivery period of 30 days. December 20. The rates for the U. S. dollar in both exchange markets were maintained unchanged. December 23. The forward delivery period for exchange purchased forward from exporters was extended to a maximum of 60 days. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0222168 gram of fine gold per New Ta iwan Do l la r. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar are N T$ 40.00 and N T$ 40.10, respectively. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted, with da i ly quota­ tions based on the buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in markets abroad .1 Currencies for which rates are not officially posted may be accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accord­ ance with the foreign market quotations.2 W i th cer­ tain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it to banks appointed by the Central Bank of Ch ina. There is no exchange market. The appointed banks clear their exchange transactions at the end of each day with the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Executive Y u an is responsible for policies con­ cerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the M i n i s­ tries of Finance and Econom ic Affairs and the Central Bank of Ch in a. The M in i s t ry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The F o r­ eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China is responsible for the overall management of for­ eign exchange, for the determination of the official buy­ ing and selling rates of exchange, and for the supervi­ sion of the authorized banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Fore ign Trade of the M in is t ry of Econom ic Affairs coordinates industrial and trade policies, inc lud­ ing those relating to the import regime and export pro­ motion, and is in charge of the issuance of import licenses. By delegation, the App l ica t ion Receipt and D i s­ patch Center at the Boa rd of Fore ign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses; for some goods, however, import applications and licenses are screened and issued by 11 appointed banks and their branches. Export applications are screened, and export permits issued, by 22 appointed banks. Most foreign exchange transactions are conducted through appointed banks, i.e., authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Aus tra l ian do l­ lars, deutsche mark, Hong K o ng dollars, Ma lays ian do l- lars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U. S. do l lars .3 Currencies not officially posted may be accepted by authorized banks but must be converted into posted currencies in exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange in the form of any of the posted currencies for making payments to residents of foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresi­ dents. As a consequence, persons who would be con­ sidered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially different from that accorded to residents of the Republic of Ch ina in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Ta iwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Ta iwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of for­ eign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Hong K o ng dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances from abroad or of money orders or other negotiable instruments drawn on for­ eign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be withdrawn in the original currency or in new Ta iwan dollars, after conversion at the official buying rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that for­ eign exchange that originated in the Un i ted States may not be remitted to Hong K o n g. Foreign Exchange Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts are subdi­ vided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments4 Most imports require individual licenses. F or virtually a ll commodities subject to license, license applications are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the App l ica t ion Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. Designated appointed banks have authority to screen import applications for certain daily necessities, to issue import licenses on behalf of the Central Bank, and to make the necessary foreign * With effect from May 8, 1972, the par value was changed to 0.204628 gram of fine gold. \ 1 Australian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 A conversion rate of ¥ 8.5 = NT$1 exists for Japanese banknotes. 3 However, certain exports to Viet-Nam are settled under tied letters of credit in U. S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports from the United States other than agricultural surplus commodities. 4 Special regulations apply to imports into the Kaohsiung export processing zone. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E P U B L IC OF C H I NA exchange available; these goods do not require an import license. Imports normally must be settled on a sight letter of credit basis. End-users and traders with an export record of over US$500,000 a year, however, may contract imports of machinery and equipment or raw materials on documents against payment, docu­ ments against acceptance, or usance letter of credit terms, provided that interest charges are not included in the price. Exchange settlement corresponding to 20 per cent of the f.o.b., c. & f., or c.i.f. value of imports (raw cotton financed under the U. S. P . L. 480 program is exempt) must be made within 28 days of approval of the license for a ll imports not taking place on a deferred payment or consignment basis, i.e., for a ll imports under letter of credit or on documents against payment terms; the requirement is 10 per cent for usance imports, and 15 per cent for imports of machinery and equipment payable in installments that do not require a bank guarantee. Provided that the foregoing requirement of a so-called performance deposit has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong K o ng in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from mainland Ch in a; for similar reasons, certain commodities are not permitted to be imported from Hong K o ng and Macao. Certain com­ modities wh ich s t i ll can be financed with U. S. aid funds (including P. L. 480 funds) can be imported only from the Un i ted States. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of pharmaceuticals and a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. L iquor and cigarettes are imported by a gov­ ernment monopoly organization, which is also responsi­ ble for domestic distribution of these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some con­ sumer luxury items,5 certain goods that are also pro­ duced locally of good quality and in sufficient quantity to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 5 per cent higher than the landed, duty-paid prices of comparable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictively;0 goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. 5 These include such items as made-up clothing and consumer durables. 6 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities, e.g., hotels for the tourist trade. 96 Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be made by both end-users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to factories and end-users. On December 31, 1971, of 11,584 classified import items, 14 were prohibited, 2,122 were controlled, and 9,448 were permissible. A general (covering) licensing procedure has been introduced in respect of certain items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, manufacturers and other direct end-users are granted authorization semiannually for the importation of listed items specified by value and by quantity. Exchange for such imports is obtain­ able automatically each time the importer presents the general approved license at an authorized bank. On December 31, 1971, the procedure applied to some 30 items. An automatic approval system is applied to cer­ tain items on the permissible list. Under this system, importers may obtain foreign exchange at any author­ ized bank by submitting import licenses which are automatically approved. App l ica t ion of the automatic approved system was limited to a few items in i t ia l ly but was later expanded. On December 31, 1971, the system applied to 2,444 items. Special regulations apply to some 7 commodities nor­ mally imported in bulk shipments and imports of which exceed 40,000 metric tons a year.7 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese flag vessels for their importation. Acco rd ing to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, qualified private traders, and end-users and manufacturers. Commerc ial imports handled by government trading agencies include chemical fertilizers, tinplate, crude o i l, and automobiles. The Central Trust of Ch ina is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Ano ther government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Ta iwan P rov inc ial Government, some local industries, and certain other customers. F i rms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the Board of Fore ign Trade and be registered by the T a i­ wan P rov inc ial Department of Reconstruction or the Reconstruction Department of Ta ipei C i t y; the firms must be operating in accordance w i th certain laws and have a m in imum capital of NT$200 ,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$50 ,000 for the last two years. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for foreign suppliers. They also must be approved by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment 7 Including soybeans, wheat, barley, corn, sorghum, rapeseed, and raw cotton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equip­ ment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its pr ior i ty from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, woo l, and wood for the production of plywood). In certain manufactur­ ing industries, a stipulated m in imum ratio of the value of the manufactured product must be met by use of domestic resources. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and (2) imports wh ich are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and wh ich comprise (a) those made under the U. S. P . L. 480 program and (b) those paid for w i th self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of Ch ina or originating from exchange receipts exempt from the surrender requirement. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank of Ch ina. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of C h i na may be made without restriction. Residents may at any time (but not more often than four times a year) make outward trans­ fers up to the equivalent of US$100 for any purpose other than import payments; applications for such per­ sonal remittances are approved automatically. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their monthly salary. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK $ 1 50 a month. M em­ bership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal sub­ scriptions for reference purposes) are also approved. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of foreign entertainers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local R E P U B L IC OF C H I NA expenses. The full amount of tuition and l iv ing expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad may be remitted, and up to US$2,400 a year in subsequent academic years. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$600 a trip (US$300 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel; visas for tourist travel, however, are not normally granted to Chinese nationals. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$ 1,000 a month for up to three months is granted for l iv ing expenses. A ll travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on their merits. Residents leaving the Republic of Ch ina may take with them no more than N T$ 1,000 in domestic bank­ notes and coins and the equivalent of US$400 in foreign currencies. Nonresident travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency upon submission of the foreign exchange memorandum evidencing their acquisi­ tion of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds 8 A ll exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to noncommunist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms. The export of a few foodstuffs also is restricted. There are ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the Un i ted K ingdom, the Un i ted States, and the Federal Republic of Germany. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the processed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. W i th minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing from exports immediately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of Ch ina, tourists are allowed to take out * Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the Kaohsiung export processing zone. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E P U B L IC OF C H I NA domestic products valued up to US$100 without provid­ ing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro­ ceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors out­ side the country, and originally approved by the Central Bank of Ch ina, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings from private investments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittances may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either ho ld or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Ta iwan dollars is limited to N T$ 1,000 for each traveler; a license from the M in i s t ry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of Ch ina. In accordance with the Fore ign Investment L aw of Ju ly 14, 1954, as amended in 1959, and the 1971 Statute for Encouragement of Investment, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after com­ pletion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original form; (4) favorable treat­ ment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricul­ tural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for addi­ tional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest­ ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given 98 to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Ta iwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the M in is t ry of Econom ic Affairs. Pur­ chases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Cen tral Trust of Ch in a. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of Ch ina in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufactured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Port­ folio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not normally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and foreign persons who have settled in the Republic of Ch ina and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Republic of Ch ina who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Ta iwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and so forth, are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Repub l ic. Gold Producers of gold must sell their output to ornamen­ tal gold processors (registered goldsmiths, silversmiths, and jewelers), through open tenders conducted by the Central Trust of Ch in a; gold delivered to the Central Trust for refining must have a fineness of 0.945, any necessary reduction being undertaken by the Taiwan Me tal M i n i ng Corpora t ion. A ny newly produced gold that remains unsold at auction must be kept in the custody of institutions specifically designated by the Government; at present, only the Cen tral Trust is so designated. Ornamental gold processors are not per­ mitted to sell gold of a fineness in excess of 0.945. Other residents may hold gold in any form and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is prohibited. Travelers may bring in any amount of gold; other imports of gold, including imports for investment purposes, require Central Bank approval and are not normally permitted. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Changes during 1971 In addition to the changes listed below, imports were further liberalized during 1971 by the shifting of items from the prohibited to the controlled list, or from the controlled to the permissible list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 1. The registered foreign exchange scheme was abolished. January 1. A revised Statute for Encouragement of Investment entered into effect. January 15. A general (covering) licensing procedure was established for the import requirements of large manufacturers and other direct users. The procedure was applicable to certain items on the controlled list. January 21. Residents were permitted to make out­ ward remittances of up to US$100 for any purpose other than import payments; a maximum of four appli­ cations could be made in each year. Previously, the facility was limited to remittances up to US$50 each, but any number of applications could be made in a year. February 1. Purchases and sales of domestically pro­ duced gold by the Central Trust of Ch ina were sus­ pended. February 6. F loor prices for exports of canned pine­ apple and citronella o il were abolished. March 13. Some 129 items were shifted from the controlled import list to the permissible import list. Some items had been so shifted earlier in the year and further shifts took place subsequently. April 1. A large number of items on the permissible list were placed under the automatic approval system introduced in October 1970, increasing its coverage to about 800 items. July 9. The exchange allowance for any approved R E P U B L IC OF C H I NA type of travel was raised from US$300 to US$600 a person a trip (from US$150 to US$300 for each accom­ panying c h i l d ). The allowance for l iv ing expenses abroad for business travel was raised from US$700 to US$1,000 a month. The allowance for study abroad after the first academic year was increased from US$1,800 to US$2,400 a year. July 20. The minimum presettlement in foreign exchange that was required for opening import letters of credit was increased from 25 per cent to 30 per cent, that for usance imports from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, and that for downpayments on machinery and equip­ ment imported on an installment payment basis from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. On December 31, these per­ centages were reduced to 20, 10, and 15, respectively. August 24. The basic exchange rate for the U. S. do l­ lar was maintained unchanged at NT $ 40 — US$1. Henceforth, the Central Bank established daily buying and selling rates for posted foreign currencies. August 26. Import surcharges were suspended. October 12. Barley and sorghum were brought under the special regulations for bulk importation. November 25. New regulations were promulgated governing the administration of the supply of, and trad­ ing i n, ornamental gold. They came into effect immedi­ ately. December 20. The basic exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained unchanged at NT $ 40 = U S $ 1. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Co lom­ bian Peso was established by Co lomb ia w i th the F u n d. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A ll exchange transac­ tions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or the authorized banks in the official market—the exchange certificate market, in wh ich the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1971 the average selling rate in the certificate market was Col$20.94 per US $ 1. The peso equivalent of the G o v­ ernment's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the central bank's accounting rate of Col$20.15 per U S $ 1; the Government purchases exchange for a ll public debt payments and other expen­ ditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other effective exchange rates. The different exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1971, the fluctuating buying rate for proceeds from coffee exports (after taking into account a 20 per cent exchange tax) was Co l$ 16.72 per US $ 1, and that for most other exports about Col$23.54 per US $ 1. A ll imports are paid for at the certificate market rate. In principle, a ll payments and receipts in respect of cur­ rent invisibles and capital also take place at that rate but different effective rates arise from the application of advance deposit requirements on exchange purchased for foreign travel and of advance payments deposits for purchases of exchange for many other purposes. A fixed rate of Col$20.00 per US$1 applies to certain petro­ leum transactions. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate mar­ ket selling rate ru l ing on the date of issue, exchange warrants (titulos de divisas); the Bank's 1 per m i ll com­ mission on outward remittances is charged. These war­ rants, wh ich are expressed in U. S. dollars are negotia­ ble, and may also be exchanged, provided that the holder presents an exchange license, for exchange cer­ tificates (for the same amount of foreign currency and free of charge); such exchange must take place between 45 and 180 days after the date of issue. W i th in the period mentioned, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate mar­ ket buying rate ru l ing on the date of repurchase. War­ rants bear interest at 5 per cent per annum. Warrants held for more than 180 days but less than two years may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate ru l ing 180 days after issue; they become nu ll and vo id two years after issue. Foreign payments made with certificate exchange that has been acquired against war­ rants are exempt from the 95 per cent advance pay­ 100 ments deposit that must otherwise be lodged for many types of outward transfers. Between 45 and 180 days after issue, warrants may also be used to purchase exchange for travel purposes, subject to the normal requirement of a local currency guarantee deposit. Administration of Control A ll imports and exports require pr ior registration at the Institute of Fore ign Trade ( I N C O M E X ). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require pr ior exchange licenses. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the Na t ional Federation of Coffee G row­ ers. Overa ll import and export po l icy is determined by the Fore ign Trade Coun c i l. The Institute of Foreign Trade, through its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to pr ior licensing. The Na t ional Coun c il for Econom ic and Social Po l icy issues directives concern­ ing direct investment in Co lomb ia to the Exchange Office and the Na t ional Planning Department, which evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Co lomb ia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The Superinten- dency of Exchange Con t ro l, which is an autonomous agency reporting direct to the Presidency of the Repub­ l ic, enforces control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for violation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international trans­ actions are normally effected in U. S. dollars. Settle­ ments w i th Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Po land, Spain, Ruman ia, and Yugos lav ia for commer­ c ial transactions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance w i th the provisions of the relevant bilat­ eral payments agreement. Payments between Co lomb ia and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Ecuador, M ex i co, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clear­ ing system, and settlements with the Dom in ican Repub­ l ic are also made through special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Co lomb ia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Co lomb ian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresi­ dents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is subject to pr ior licensing by the Institute of Fore ign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely without license. In this last category, there is a global free list applicable to a ll countries and a Na t ional Free L ist applicable to L A F TA countries only; the latter contains a ll commodities that are on the global free list as well as some additional ones. These liberalized imports corresponded to about 29 per cent of 1971 reimbursable imports; 1 they comprise mainly certain raw materials and some types of machin­ ery. A ll import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by the Institute of Fore ign Trade to deter­ mine whether local substitutes are available. The pro­ hibited list comprises mainly such items as arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, such as corn and m i lk, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods; imports of certain goods on this list may be licensed from time to time. P r ior registration of the import transaction at the Institute of Fore ign Trade is required for a ll imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books and pharmaceuticals). The charge for import registration is Co l$ 100.00 (in some cases Col$5.00) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent. Advance import deposits in Co lomb ian currency must be made w i th the Bank of the Republic before import registration is permitted; the deposit is returned 85 days after the goods have cleared customs. The advance import deposit is payable at one of many rates, depend­ ing on the type of goods; those important in practice are the rates of 1, 5, 10, 30, 50, 70, and 100 per cent. The following imports are exempt from prior depos­ its: nonreimbursable imports; 1 imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (Vallejo Plan); nearly a ll goods included in the Co lom­ bian Na t ional L ist and the special lists granting con­ cessions to L A F TA countries; all imports made under preferential arrangements from Andean G roup coun­ tries; goods financed with credits having a maturity of 1 The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports financed from Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed with for­ eign credit; they include imports under bilateral payments agreements. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants, commodities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. C O L O M B IA at least 40 years; 2 noncommercial capital goods and components imported by the Government, departments, municipalities, official undertakings, semiofficial bodies, and public service agencies, and noncommercial goods when intended for mineral exploration or exploitation; goods imported by the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers for its own use; goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; capital goods, components, and raw materials imported by firms sponsored and sup­ ported by the Government, and firms holding foreign commitments backed by the Government; machinery and equipment coming under the tariff headings for the basic industries; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t ing ( I D E M A ); most imports by universities and other nonprofit-making educational institutions; scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that contribute to the culture of the Co lomb ian people, together with capital goods for the production of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average selling rate for exchange cer­ tificates for the previous month. A pr ior exchange license is required for a ll payments for imports, except when they are made through credit institutions or are financed by letters of credit opened by banking institutions in countries with which bilateral payments arrangements or reciprocal credit agreements are in force (including the Dom in ican Republic). Licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at a rate announced monthly by the M in i s t ry of Finance on the basis of the average exchange certificate price for the preceding month. Exempt are import payments by the Government, departments, municipalities, and official agencies, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the Republic, goods for gen­ eral consumption imported by the Institute of A g r i c u l­ tural Marke t ing, payment for the crude o il acquired by the national petroleum company (Empresa Co lom- biana de P e t r o l e o s —ECO PETROL) for refining in Co lomb ia, imports financed by U. S. A ID credits, imports for which payment is made w i th in 30 days of shipment, and payments, whether made by letters of credit or not, for imports from countries w i th wh ich bilateral payments arrangements or reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (including the Dom in ican Republic). Import duties are calculated at the effective exchange rate applicable to the advance deposit of 95 per cent. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax 2 Goods so financed that are included in the import free list require an advance deposit of 10 per cent of the deposit payable on the same commodities when not imported under such credits. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O L O M B IA on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to the Export P ro­ motion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the Na t ional Coffee Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities, goods of L A F TA origin, and imports under the Vallejo P lan. Importers of goods financed by the U. S. A ID are required to ship at least 50 per cent of the total volume of shipments on Colombian flagships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. In principle, a ll payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to officially established priorities determined by the Monetary Board; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license, and commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also transfer without prior approval the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support. No advance payment deposit is required for invisibles, except for travel allow­ ances, for which a 50 per cent pr ior deposit in local currency is required,3 and for payments of interest on certain loans, for which the prescribed deposit is 95 per cent. Payments for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1 ,050 a person a year; this l im it may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6 ,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country; transfers to professionals and technicians undertaking courses abroad are generally restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other students the ceilings vary from US$120 to US$200 a month, depending on the cost of l iv ing in the country concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Co lomb ia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Co lomb ian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Co l$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of Co lomb ian products may be made freely, except when the law provides otherwise. There is a list of exports that are either prohibited or are subject to special requirements. P r ior application for registration is required for a ll exports except crude o i l, samples, and Co lomb ian products in noncommercial quantities. If 3 The deposit, which is calculated on the basis of the average sell­ ing rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, must be made when application is made for the foreign exchange and it is released upon the traveler's return to Colombia, provided that he has stayed abroad the number of days for which he was granted exchange. 102 the application meets a ll legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any funds) corresponding to the fu ll export value or a bank guarantee (usually for 30 per cent of the same value), to ensure that the pro­ ceeds w i ll be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export; (2) for banana exports, 50 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 30 days following the registration of the export, and the remaining 50 per cent w i th in 60 days after the registration; and (3) for other exports, generally within 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur­ rendered by the exporter of any product to repay old foreign debts incurred by the exporter concerned. A ll exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude o il not produced by E C O P E T R O L, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and cattle hides receive tax credit certificates (CAT s) in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, con­ verted at the exchange rate used for import deposits. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices six months after issuance for the payment of income tax, additional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes.4 At the end of 1971, certificates just issued were quoted at a discount of about 7 per cent; hence the effective exchange rate was about Col$21 .34 per US$1. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the bankers' market. The certificates have a validity of 5 to 10 days, after wh ich they must be surrendered to the central bank at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. The surrender price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the wo r ld market. Coffee exports are subject to the following additional regulations: (1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed, after deduction for freight and insurance, at US$72 .00 5 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 20 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid 4 Decree No. 2382 of December 6, 1971, stipulates that the tax credit certificates be redeemable from the third month of their emis­ sion for processed and manufactured goods, and from the sixth month for all other goods. In practice, however, the six-month term was being used for all goods until the Executive Council of Foreign Trade published the list of goods eligible for the three-month cer­ tificates. 5 This price was increased to US$73.50 on March 9, 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the Na t ional Coffee Fund while the remainder pro­ vides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of wh ich the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. The Special Exchange Account is credited at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$20 .15 per US $ 1. (3) Exporters must either surrender in k ind to the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers and without payment the equivalent of 25Vi per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention) or pay the Federation the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla tax); the tax must be paid, either in k ind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agr icu l ture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes domestic buying prices for the various grades, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. (6) In principle, whenever the domestic support price, net of taxes and freight, exceeds a level corresponding to a spot New Y o rk price of US$0.57 a pound, the excess (net of taxes and levies) is shared among producer, Coffee Fund, and local pro­ ducers' committees at a ratio of 35:30:35; in that event, the retention is to be increased and the proceeds of the increase are paid to the Coffee Fund and the producers' committees. These provisions have never been applied. Anticipated export proceeds from coffee may be pro­ visionally surrendered in advance of actual surrender (when preflnanced by foreign buyers) provided that the latter takes place within 60 days of the provisional surrender, at a provisional exchange rate of Co l$ 19.00 per U S $ 1 .6 Advance surrender of anticipated export proceeds from products other than coffee may be made at the average rate of exchange certificates for the previous month, as determined by the M in is t ry of Finance, provided that the actual surrender takes place within 12 months of the provisional surrender, or w i th in 24 months if the export value exceeds US$500,000. The payment to the exporter is subsequently adjusted for the effective exchange rate applicable on the day of actual surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered; they are converted at the certificate market buying rate. Capital A ll inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. A ll foreign investment in Co lomb ia, a ll new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,7 and the movement of capital previously 6 This term may be extended by another 60 days. 7 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all nature do not require registra­ tion; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such repayment, however, is subject to the 95 per cent prior deposit. In addition, such credits are subject to maximum interest rates of 9% per cent. C O L O M B IA imported (except loans previously registered under Decree N o. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Repub l ic .8 Cap i tal imports in amounts of US$100,000 or more and capital imported for petroleum explora­ tion or exploitation, or for other mineral exploration, also require prior approval by the Na t ional Planning Department in accordance with directives issued by the Na t ional Coun c il for Economic and Social Po l icy; capital for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the M i n i s­ try of Mines and Petroleum. Cap i tal registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Monetary Board Resolution N o. 9 of 1968.9 The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beginning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from invest­ ments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 14 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years, provided that the addi­ tional remittances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from advance deposit and import license requirements. Cap i tal invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian ind i­ viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum maturity of one year and to maximum interest rates of 9 per cent for loans of up to two years' maturity and 9Vi per cent for loans of longer ma tu r i ty ,10 but exceptions may be made when contracts provide for the periodic revision of the rate of interest. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade­ marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the bene­ ficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be regis­ tered. Co lomb ian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the pr inc ipal investment at the prevailing certificate market rate. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally per­ mitted. A peso advance deposit corresponding to 95 per cent of the exchange requested is required for repayments of pr inc ipal and payment of interest on certain private 8 As at the end of 1971, the registration of certain foreign invest­ ments and of old contracts involving payment of royalties, commis­ sions, etc., had not yet been completed. 9 Profits earned before December 31, 1966 may be remitted in full before registration is completed, upon proof of the investment's for­ eign origin. 10 On February 23, 1972, these maximum interest rates were changed to 8 per cent and 8^ per cent, respectively. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O L O M B IA loans and on private suppliers' credits. In addition, a ll loans of working capital obtained from abroad in the form of foreign exchange are subject to the requirement of a 95 per cent peso deposit to be held by the Bank of the Republic for one month from the date of registering the loan. Gold Physical and ju r id ical persons may trade in Co lomb ia in gold coins for collection purposes only. W i th this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the country at US$35 an ounce and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital mining companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and a ll payments to the small producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Co lomb ian pesos at their nominal value. When the Bank sells newly mined Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1971) gold abroad at market prices in excess of US$35 an ounce, it reimburses the producer for the difference. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Co lomb ian M i n i ng Association, on presentation of licenses issued by the Superintendency of Exchange Con t ro l, at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold markets during the previous month plus a sales tax of 15 per cent; this price is trans­ lated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The Bank's exports of gold are made at wor ld market prices and the excess over its purchase price of US$35 is paid out to the producers who have supplied the gold. Imports of gold also are a monopoly of the Bank of the Repub­ l ic; imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The assay and refining houses and the m in ing com­ panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Con t ro l. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Super­ intendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Resi­ dents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. (pesos per U. S. dollar) Buying Selling 16.72 (Certificate Market Rate less 20% Exchange Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee expo r t s .11 20.15 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Convers ion of Government's receipts from exchange tax on coffee exports. 20.90 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude o il and petroleum derivatives (Ar t ic le 158 of Decree -Law N o. 4 4 4 ) .12 23.75 (Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month plus 15% Tax Credit Certificates, Fluctuating Rate) A ll other exports.1 1* 11 1 3 20.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude o il from foreign-owned companies in C o l om b ia for domestic r e f in ing .15 20.15 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of public debt, diplomatic expenses, official travel, etc. 20.94 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) A ll other t r a n s a c t i o n s .™ Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year, the advance import deposit require­ ments were reduced for the majority of tariff positions, principally by across-the-board reductions authorized by Monetary Board Resolution N o. 40 (see below). There were relatively few changes of classification from the prohibited import list to the licensing list, but free list imports made up 29 per cent of reimbursable imports, compared with 20 per cent in 1970, chiefly due 11 Advance surrender of export proceeds may result in different effective rates; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above. 12 Receipts from exports of crude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrendered. ™ Since tax credit certificates traded immediately after issue were quoted at a discount of 7.1 per cent, their value was about 14 per cent of the export value. Thus, since the average certificate market rate of the preceding month was 20.65, the effective rate for these exports was 23.54, implying a premium of 12.6 per cent over the certificate rate. 14 The Bank of the Republic purchases gold from domestic pro­ ducers at a price corresponding to the world market price of gold, cal­ culated at Col$21.90 per US$1. 15 This rate is also used as a computation rate to determine the price in pesos which ECOPETROL and foreign-owned companies receive for domestic sales of crude petroleum. 10 Different effective rates arise from the application of advance deposit requirements to sales of exchange for travel purposes and the 95 per cent advance payments deposit required for purchases of exchange for many other purposes. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to shifts that had occurred during 1970 and a higher rejection rate of import applications for goods on the licensing list. The selling rate in the certificate exchange market was gradually depreciated from Col$19.13 per U. S. dollar to Col$20 .94 per U. S. dollar. January 1. The maximum interest rates on new loans contracted abroad were raised to 9 per cent for loans of up to one year's maturity and 9Vi per cent for loans with maturities in excess of one year. (Resolution No. 88.) Such loans became subject to a minimum maturity of 180 days. (Resolution N o. 79.) January 20. The provisional exchange rate for advance surrender of coffee export proceeds was raised from Co l$15 .50 to Co l$19 .00 per U . S. dollar. (Mone­ tary Board Resolution N o. 1.) January 22. Exchange warrants became interest- bearing; the rate of interest was set at 5 per cent per annum. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 2.) January 27. Advance import deposits were reduced for 43 items, including automobile parts. (Monetary Board Resolutions No s. 4 and 5.) January 28. Tariffs were lowered for unassembled automotive vehicles imported by assembly companies. (Ministry of Finance Decree N o. 119.) February 3. The ceiling on the rate of interest on private loans obtained abroad was fixed at 9 per cent for terms of less than two years and at 9Vi per cent for terms longer than two years. (Monetary Board Resolu­ tion N o. 8.) February 5. Import payments and repayments of import credits were henceforth not permitted to be made before their due dates. (Exchange Office C i rcu lar No. 6.) February 9, Imports of certain woolen fabrics, auto­ mobiles, and automobile parts were moved from the prohibited list to the licensing list. (Resolutions No s. 2 and 3 of the Coun c il of Foreign Trade.) February 9. New tariff subpositions relating to auto­ motive vehicles and their parts were put on the licens­ ing list. (Resolution N o. 2 of the Institute of Fore ign Trade.) February 10. It was required that advance exchange surrender for coffee exports be followed by actual sur­ render w i th in 60 days (previously 120 days); the dead­ line could be extended, however, by up to 60 days. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 10.) February 12. The m in imum surrender price for coffee was reduced from US$76 to US$73 per 70-kilogram bag. (Monetary Boa rd Resolution N o. 12.) February 23. Eight import items were moved from the prohibited to the licensing list, and eight others from the licensing to the free list. (Resolution N o. 6 of the Institute of Fore ign Trade.) February 24. The amount of foreign exchange credits the Bank of the Republic was authorized to make availa­ ble to the Export Promo t ion Fund was increased from US$7 m i l l ion to US$15 m i l l ion and the terms of the C O L O M B IA export credits were fixed at ten years maximum matu­ rity and 8 per cent m in imum interest rate. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 14.) March 3. A 5 per cent reserve requirement was imposed against the major types of foreign exchange liabilities of the banks, and a 1 per cent a month l im it was imposed on the growth of guarantees in foreign currency extended by credit institutions. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 15.) March 24. Exchange warrants became negotiable. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 17.) March 24. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 18 set at 180 days the maximum term for lines of credit obtained directly abroad by individuals or firms (except for cred­ its related to imports of capital goods). The resolution also set an interest ceiling of 9% per cent on such lines of credit, and specified that these must be registered w i th the Exchange Office. March 24. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 19 exempted from the 1 per cent l im it on the growth of banks' foreign currency guarantees a ll guarantees related to completion of contracts other than loans or related to import payments. April 6. The Exchange Office clarified that the exemptions from the 95 per cent advance payments deposit were applicable to countries with which Co lom­ bia had a bilateral payments agreement, L A F TA coun­ tries, and the Dom in ican Republic. Previously, these exemptions were already applicable in practice. (C i rcu­ lar N o. 20.) April 14. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 31 exempted the following from the 1 per cent l im it on the monthly growth of guarantees specified in Resolu­ tion N o. 15: export financing u t i l iz ing the Export P ro­ motion Fund, transactions involving international or official foreign credit organizations, and transactions involving institutions of higher education. April 21. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 34 further defined the deposit requirements w i th respect to Reso­ lu t ion N o. 15. April 26. Exchange Office C i rcu lar N o. 25 specified that a ll payments for imports into the free trade zones of San Andres and Le t ic ia must be made through bank­ ing establishments in those places. April 28. Exempted from the 1 per cent l im it on the growth of foreign currency guarantees were obligations related to multinational projects with Co lomb ian public sector participation and credit operations for basic industries considered to be of an official nature. (Mone­ tary Board Resolution N o. 36.) May 4. The Counc il of State suspended Monetary Board Resolution N o. 52 of 1970. As a result, the tax credit certificates for the surrender of exchange pro­ ceeds from minor exports had to be calculated on the total value of the exchange surrendered instead of, as previously, the f.o.b. value. May 10. Add i t ional commemorative gold coins were issued by the Bank of the Republic. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O L O M B IA May 13. Advance import deposit rates for all tariff positions for which these rates had previously been at 130 per cent and 70 per cent, were reduced to 100 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively. The deposit rates for many other positions were also reduced. This meas­ ure affected the bulk of imports for which advance import deposits were required. (Monetary Board Reso­ lution N o. 40.) June 1. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 59 extended from nine months to four years the term within which the required documentation must be submitted to receive reimbursement of the payments deposit for travelers' foreign exchange. June 2. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 45 reduced from US$1,350 to US$1,050 the annual travel allow­ ance for persons over 16, and from US$900 to US$700 the allowance for persons aged 12 to 16. June 7. Decree N o. 1082 set forth new export and import regulations pertaining to the free trade zones of Barranquilla, Buenaventura, and Palmaseca. June 9. Decree N o. 1146 eliminated customs duties on a large number of chemical and industrial imports originating in countries of the Andean G roup. June 15. The Co lomb ian and Bulgarian Governments signed a bilateral payments agreement to replace the existing payments agreement concluded between the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers and the B u l­ garian Foreign Trade Corporation. June 23. The Exchange Office announced that it had taken over from the Bank of the Republic the admin­ istration of the monthly budget for travel exchange. June 24. The exchange rate for acquiring foreign exchange for the purpose of purchasing crude o il for domestic refining was increased from Co l$9 to Co l$20 per U. S. dollar. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 53.) June 24. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced to US$69 per bag. June 30. Decree N o. 1299 put into effect the Andean Investment Code. (Decision N o. 24 of the Commission of the Andean Group .) July 6. The validity for registrations of exports other than coffee was set at 60 days, and that for import licenses generally at five months. In the case of import licenses, certain exceptions and possibilities for renewal were specified. (Institute of Foreign Trade, Resolution N o. 10.) July 7. Travelers were permitted four years—instead of nine months as previously —to present to the Exchange Office the documentation required to receive reimbursement of their travelers' exchange deposits. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 59.) July 28. Banana export receipts were to be surren­ dered by the following deadlines: 50 per cent w i th in 30 days of export registration and the remaining 50 per cent w i th in 60 days of registration. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 65.) August 9. Exchange Office C i rcu lar N o. 42 increased to 240 days the term for completing payment for expen­ 106 ditures abroad that were financed by letters of credit with banking institutions established in countries with which the Bank of the Republic had initiated reciprocal credit arrangements. August 10. The Bank of the Republic authorized the use of deutsche mark for exchange surrender. Fore ign exchange purchased at the Bank of the Republic could also be taken up in the form of deutsche mark. (C ircu­ lar N o. 2977.) August 11. Institute of Fore ign Trade Resolution N o. 505 published regulations pertaining to the re-exportation of foreign merchandise. August 16. The U. S. dollar rate in the certificate market was maintained unchanged. August 30. The Bank of the Republic authorized the use of the following currencies, in addition to the U. S. dollar and the deutsche mark, when surrendering for­ eign exchange: pounds sterling, F rench francs, Swiss francs, Italian lire, Swedish kronor, Netherlands guild­ ers, and Japanese yen. September 8. The Bank of the Republic henceforth sold foreign exchange for official travel at the account­ ing rate of the Bank of the Republic instead of at the certificate market rate. (Monetary Board Resolution N o. 73.) September 16. Congress passed L aw N o. 6 of 1971, wh ich authorized the Government to undertake various reforms of the tariff system, inc lud ing variation of tariff rates for the purpose of stimulating economic development. September 22. Monetary Boa rd Resolution N o. 74 exempted from the 95 per cent advance payments deposit applications for foreign exchange in connection w i th crude o il purchases for domestic refining. September 22. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 75 reduced advance import deposit rates for 22 tariff positions. September 24. The Exchange Office announced that it would no longer register loans for the prefinancing of exports when advance payment of interest was stipu­ lated or when the loan was discounted directly by the creditors. (Circular N o. 48.) October 1. The reciprocal credit agreement with B r a z il came into operation. October 13. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 80 spe­ cified the conditions under wh ich the Exchange Office could grant a foreign exchange license in the absence of documentation describing the nature of the payment. These conditions included a guarantee payment by the applicant. October 19. Resolution N o. 5 of the Institute of Fo r­ eign Trade created an Adv iso ry Committee for G lobal Licenses wh ich was to study and review projects eligi­ ble for global import licenses. October 20. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 82 reduced the waiting period between the customs clear­ ance of imports and the reimbursement of advance import deposits from 90 days to 85 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 20. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 84 deter­ mined that the Exchange Office would henceforth authorize exchange licenses for interest payments only when the effective rate of interest (including a ll service charges) did not exceed 9% per cent per annum. October 25. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 85 set a deposit requirement of 18 per cent against the main types of short-term foreign liabilities of banking estab­ lishments. Exempted were liabilities related to export prefinancing. October 25. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 86 set a deposit requirement of 30 per cent for a ll additional short-term foreign liabilities incurred after October 31 by financial corporations. October 25. Monetary Boa rd Resolution N o. 87 required that the nonbank recipient of a loan from abroad which resulted in a receipt of foreign exchange place a deposit corresponding to 95 per cent of the amount of the loan with the Exchange Office for a period of one month after registration of the loan. November 5. Decree N o. 2153 set forth the admin­ istrative regulations w i th respect to Decree N o. 1399 which had brought the Andean Investment Code into effect. These regulations diverged from the original code in several respects, notably in the greater latitude given to continued foreign investment in the banking sector. November 17. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 94 laid down the conditions under which the Exchange Office should authorize freight and insurance payments by Co lomb ian exporters. Am o ng these conditions was that the relevant export registration must be in c.i.f. or c. & f. terms. November 22. The Exchange Office announced that with effect from December 1 it would not be necessary C O L O M B IA to solicit approval for import payments (and costs asso­ ciated with these payments) that were financed by let­ ters of credit opened by banks established in countries with which the Bank of the Republic maintained recip­ rocal credit agreements. November 26. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 96 increased the minimum exchange surrender price for coffee exports to US$72 a bag. December 6. Decree N o. 2382 provided that the exchange tax certificate henceforth was redeemable at its face value as follows: for manufactured or processed exports, from the third month of the certificate's issue, and for other commodities, from the sixth month after issue. The Executive Counc il of Foreign Trade would determine which products were to be considered manu­ factured or processed. (This determination had not been made by the end of the year and the six-month term was being applied to a ll minor exports.) December 13. The Supreme Court of Justice declared Decree N o. 1299, which had put the Andean Invest­ ment Code into effect, legally inva l id, owing to the absence of approval by the Congress. December 17. The accounting rate of the Bank of the Republic was depreciated from Co l$ 18.50 to Col$20.15 per U . S. dollar. (Monetary Board Resolu­ tion N o. 102.) December 20. The U. S. dollar rate in the certificate market was maintained unchanged. December 21. Exchange Office C i rcu lar N o. 65 pro­ vided that unused airline tickets could be reimbursed by the airline concerned, provided that the passage money for the entire trip (when originating in or end­ ing in Colombia) was transferred by the airline initiat­ ing or terminating the transport in Co lomb ia. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE 'S REPUBLIC OF T HE CONGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of the People's Republic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun ( B C E A E C) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i. e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A E C, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctu­ ating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Congo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Congo itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela­ tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations in the M in is t ry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrow­ ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo, and 11 The C FA franc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 108 inward and outward direct investment. Exchange con­ trol is administered by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations and the authorized banks. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is t ry of Economic Affairs, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E A EC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F^anc A rea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with mainland Ch ina are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Settlements with a ll other coun­ tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in F rench francs through Fore ign or F inan­ cial Accounts in Francs. A ll payments to Portugal require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance and the Budget. A ll settlements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of B C E A EC banknotes to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed direct to the B C E A EC in Brazzaville by foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports of virtually all commodities from countries in the F rench Franc A r ea and from E EC countries other than France may be made freely. A ll imports of Portuguese or Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from a ll n o n -EEC countries outside the French Franc A r ea are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program; the program also includes indicative quotas for a few commodities from E EC countries other than France. Th is program is deter­ mined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Econom ic Un ion - There are inoperative payments agreements with North Korea and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ( U D E A C ). A l so outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral pay­ ments agreements and imports made by O F N A C OM (Office Na t ional du Commerce) or B C CO (Bureau pour la Creation, le Controle et l'Orientation des Entre- prises et Exploitations d'Etat). The quotas for n o n -EEC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc A rea. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in E EC countries other than France are issued automatically. Imports from n o n - U D E AC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product (jurnelage). The Na t ional Trad ing Office has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from mainland Ch ina. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from foreign countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. F or many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per­ mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea may obtain an exchange alloca­ tion of an amount equivalent to C F AF 150,000 a person a trip ( C F AF 75,000 for children under ten); any for­ eign exchange remaining after return to Congo in excess of C F AF 5,000 must be surrendered. F or business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 400,000 a trip. Add i t ional amounts of foreign exchange for business travel may be author­ ized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than zaire banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresi­ dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out P EO P L E 'S R E P U B L IC OF T HE C O N GO up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E A EC bank­ notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E A EC bank­ notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000, as well as any foreign means of payment obtained from an authorized bank to the debit of a F inanc ial Account in Francs or a Foreign Currency Accoun t; they may reconvert up to C F AF 25,000 in B C E A EC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports to countries in the French Franc A rea may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the Na t ional Marke t ing Office for Ag r icu l tu ral Products (Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles, or O N C P A) or other state enterprises having an export monopoly. A ll other exports require ind i­ vidual licenses. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of the due date. A ll export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi­ ciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for­ eign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A E C, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital A ll capital movements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Congo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun­ tries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capi­ tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. A ll foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P EO P L E 'S R E P U B L IC OF T HE C O N GO that are held in Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi­ ties in Congo, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments a b r o a d3 require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein­ vestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the pr ior approval of the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Congo 4 require prior declaration to the M in is ter of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara­ tion during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial l iqu i­ dation of direct investments in Congo must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Congo. Bo th the making and the l iqu ida­ tion of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days follow­ ing each operation. D irect investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest­ ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how­ ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Congo has previously been author­ ized. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 4 Including those involving the cession between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 110 Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Congo and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lend ing by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control. However, certain lending in foreign currency and certain lending in C FA francs is unre­ stricted. Other lending to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ t ion: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Fore ign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on speci­ fied income. The Code also provides for three categories of pref­ erential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the former Equa tor ial Customs Un ion (the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Congo, and G a b o n ). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enter­ prises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes wh ich are granted to a ll investments in Congo. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution w h o, after e x am i n i ng the do cum en t s, t ran sm i ts t h em to the Inve s tment C o m m i s s i o n. A f t er an o p i n i on has been g i v en by that C o m m i s s i o n, the p ro ject is subm i t t ed to the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t rea tment A is g r an t ed by decree issued by the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t rea tment B is g r an t ed by an act of the E x e c u t i ve C omm i t t ee of the C e n t r al A f r i c an C u s t oms a nd E c o n o m ic U n i on u p on the r e c omm e n d a t i on of the C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. P r e f e r e n t i al t rea tment C requ i res l e g i s l a t i o n. Gold By v i r t ue of D e c r ee N o. 6 6 / 2 36 of J u ly 2 9, 1966, as am e n d ed by D e c r ee N o. 6 6 / 2 6 5, of A u g u st 2 9, 1966, res iden ts a re free to h o ld in C o n go g o ld in the f o rm of c o i n s, a rt objects, or j ew e l r y, but they r e q u i re the p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i on of the M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce a nd the B u d g et to h o ld g o ld in a ny o ther f o rm or to im p o rt or e x p o rt g o ld in any f o rm f r om or to any o ther c o u n t r y. E x e m pt f r om the la t ter r e q u i r em e nt are (1) im p o r ts a nd expo r ts by or on b e h a lf of the T r e a s u ry or the B C E A EC a nd (2) im p o r ts a nd expo r ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed a r t i c l es c o n­ t a i n i ng a m i n or q u a n t i ty of g o ld (such as g o l d - f i l l ed or g o l d - p l a t ed a r t ic le s ). B o th l i c e n s ed a nd exempt im p o r ts of g o ld are subject to cu s toms d e c l a r a t i o n. T he agency S O G A R EM has a m o n o p o ly o v er the expo rt of n ew ly m i n ed g o l d. Changes during 1971 August 25. L i m i ts we re im p o s ed on a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s' net o v e r a ll p o s i t i o ns in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es a nd in f rancs v i s - a -v is f o r e i gn c o u n t r i e s. August 28. F o l l o w i ng the i n t r o d u c t i on of a d u al exchange m a r k et in F r a n c e, s im i l ar d u al m a r k et a r rangemen ts we re i n t r o d u c ed in the P e o p l e 's R e p u b l ic of the C o n g o. T he exchange ra te f or the F r e n ch f r anc r em a i n ed f ixed at C F AF 1 = F 0 .02, a nd the effective p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip f or the U. S. d o l l ar in the o f f i c i al ex ch ange m a r k et r em a i n ed at C F AF 2 7 7 . 7 10 = U S $ 1. T he sys tem of non r e s id ent a c coun ts was r e o r g a n i z e d. P EO P L E 'S R E P U B L IC OF T HE C O N GO F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs h e n c e f o r th we re r e l a t ed to the o f f i c i al exchange m a r k et o n l y, a nd F i n a n c i al A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs we re i n t r o d u c e d, w h i ch we re re la ted to the f i n a n c i al f ranc m a r k e t. B C E A EC b ank­ no tes m a i l ed to the B C E A EC by f o r e i gn c o r r e s p o n d­ ents of a u t h o r i z ed b anks h e n c e f o r th c o u ld be c r e d i t ed o n ly to F i n a n c i al A c c o u n ts in F r a n c s. August 31. P a ym e nt f or im p o r ts f r om f o r e i gn c o u n­ t r ies h ad to be effected at the latest three m o n t hs after cu s toms c l e a r a n ce ( two yea rs for c a p i t al goods ). (T h is mea su re was sub sequen t ly r evok ed .) September 9. T he ex ch ange a l l o c a t i on f or tou r i st t r a v el was in c r e a s ed f r om the e q u i v a l e nt of C F AF 150 ,000 a p e r s on a t r i p, f or two t r ips a yea r, to C F AF 150 ,000 a p e r s on a t r ip f or any n um b er of t r ips a y e a r. October 14. T he im p o rt a nd expo rt c o n t r o ls we re r e o r g a n i z e d. A ll im p o r ts f r om the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea of goods u n d er im p o rt c o n t r o ls or im p o rt m o n o p o ly r e q u i r ed a s p e c i al a u t h o r i z a t i on issued by the M i n i s t er of C o m m e r c e. A ll expo r ts to f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es r e q u i r ed a l icen se, but the r e q u i r em e nt of a su r r end er c omm i t­ m ent (engagement de change) w as t e rm i n a t e d. December 3. T he c omm i s s i o ns p a y a b le to the T r e a s­ u ry f or t rans fe rs to f o r e i gn coun t r i es we re a n n o u n c ed a nd w o u ld c ome i n to fo r ce on J a n u a ry 1, 1972. T h ey r a n g ed f r om 0 .10 p er cent to 0 . 60 p er cen t, subject to a m i n i m um of C F AF 100. December 17. W i th c e r t a in ex c ep t ion s, F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs a nd F i n a n c i al A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs c o u ld o n ly be d eb i t ed f or p aym en ts in f rancs to r e s i­ dents, a nd no l o n g er f or pu rcha ses of f o r e i gn exchange. ( T h is mea su re w as sub sequen t ly r e v o k e d .) December 17. T he l e n d i ng of f rancs to non re s iden ts f or p e r i o ds of up to two yea rs was f ree ly p e rm i t t e d. December 24. T he exchange ra te f or the F r e n ch f r a nc was m a i n t a i n ed at C F AF 1 = F 0 . 0 2. T he effec­ t i ve p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip f or the U. S. d o l l ar in the o f f i c i al exchange m a r k et b e c ame C F AF 2 5 5 . 7 85 = U S $ 1. T he d u al exchange m a r k et a r rangemen ts we re m a i n t a i n e d. I ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa R ican C o l o n. There is a dual exchange market. The Central Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed buying rate of 0 6.62 per US $ 1. Exchange at the official sell­ ing rate of 0 6.65 is granted for listed essential imports from a ll sources, imports from Central Ame r ica and Panama when covered by free trade agreements, specified current invisibles, and a few types of capital transfers. Receipts from certain invisibles must be sur­ rendered at the official rate. A ll other sales and pur­ chases may be made freely in a free market in wh ich the exchange rates are fixed; the buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were 0 8.57 and 0 8.60, respectively, on December 31, 1971. Two additional effective selling rates arise in the offi­ c ial market from exchange surcharges of 15 per cent and 30 per cent applied to payments for two groups of semiessential imports; these surcharges are applied to the official buying rate of 0 6.62 per US$1 and give rise to effective selling rates of 0 7.60 and 0 8.60, respectively.1 M i x i ng rates may arise from the fact that transfers at the official rate of interest and dividends on regis­ tered capital may be limited to a certain percentage of the registered amount, while amounts in excess of that percentage can be transferred through the free market. Costa R i ca formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Costa R i c a. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks acting as its agents. The free exchange market is conducted by commercial banks and licensed exchange houses. Commercial banks deal in this market with the authorization of the Central Bank, for its account and at its risk. Other residents do not require a license from the Central Bank to effect transactions in the free market. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly a ll exchange transactions in Costa R i ca are expressed in U. S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U. S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that coun­ try. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and trade-related invisibles, if eligible for the official rate, may be made in Costa R ican colones through the Camara de C om- 1 The surcharges were eliminated on February 1, 1972. 112 pensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Am e r i ca to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for pay­ ments for a ll imports of Central Ame r ican origin and for a ll current invisibles and capital transfers. The cen­ tral banks of these four countries may also convert Costa R ican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10 ,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mex ico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa R ican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance w i th the Agreement on C lear ing and Rec iprocal Credits between the Bank of M ex i co and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the documents must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special arrangements w i th Mex ico for the conversion of Costa R ican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing and a ll import payments may be made freely. However, certain imports from C A CM countries require pr ior authorization, and imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the M in is t ry of Indus­ try and Commerce. Imports from South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Exchange at the official rate of 0 6.65 per US$1 is granted for the c. i. f. value of specified essential imports 2 from outside Central Am e r i c a; for a ll imports from Central Ame r ican countries and Panama that are covered by the provisions of regional integration agree­ ments and are not manufactured in Costa R i c a; for goods imported prior to June 19, 1971; for commit­ ments undertaken prior to June 19, 1971 with bona fide financial institutions abroad; and for payments of let­ ters of credit issued prior to June 19, 1971 for goods not shipped by that date. A ll other imports are subject to surcharges of 15 per cent or 30 per cent of their c. i. f. value when eligible for the official rate or pass through the free market when they are not. To be eligible for foreign exchange from the official market, imports must be registered with the Central Bank within 60 days of arrival at a national port. This registration serves as an application for official exchange. In principle, the Central Bank grants authorization to purchase foreign exchange at the time of registration; delays may occur, however. - Official exchange is not granted for imports of these commodities from outside the C A CM if comparable commodities (in terms of price, volume, and quality) are produced in Costa R ica or elsewhere in Central Amer ica. The purchase of exchange at the official rate for essential imports also produced in Costa R i ca is subject to prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In addition to any applicable customs duty, there are levied on imports (1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs duty on commodities not covered by the com­ mon external tariff of the Central Ame r ican Common Market; and (2) a sales tax with a range of 5-25 per cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt. Furthermore, most imports originating out­ side the Central Ame r ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exchange at the official rate is only granted for freight and insurance on imports effected at the official rate; for dividends and interest on regis­ tered foreign capital; indispensable payments of the Ce; tral Government; normal expenses in foreign cur­ rency on export transactions settled through the offi­ cial market; student remittances; royalties; and insur­ ance and reinsurance premiums, provided a commit­ ment is given that any receipts from indemnities w i ll be sold in the official market. A l loca t ions of exchange at the official rate for interest and dividends are in p r in­ ciple made on the basis of 10 per cent of the registered capital, while the balance may be settled through the free market; in practice, allocations are granted on the merits of the case. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus 0 5 a trip; government officials, diplomats, minors, and stu­ dents are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bdnk supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered in the official exchange market. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addi­ tion to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic mate­ rials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap i ron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals (from the M in is t ry of Industry and Comme rce ); sugar (from the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce, so that shipments under the sugar quotas may be con tro l led); lumber and root of ipecacuanha (from the Institute for Lands and Co lon iza­ tion); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle (from the Na t ional Coun c il of P roduc t ion ); airplanes (from the C i v il Av ia t ion Board); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the Na t ional Mu s eum ); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense B o a r d ); certain livestock, animals and plants of forest origin (from the M in i s t ry of A g r i c u l­ ture and L iv e s to ck ); and coffee, which requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to con­ trol exports under the coffee quotas; in addition, when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that C O S TA R ICA bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South A f r i ca are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of a ll exports must be sur­ rendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have con­ tracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa R i c a; (2) the allowance for depreciation on their investment in Costa R i ca that is acceptable to the U. S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in for­ eign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made dur­ ing the year that were necessary for their normal busi­ ness in Costa R i c a. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren­ dered at the official rate within 60 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained or sold in the free market: diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; family remit­ tances and other personal remittances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the premium was paid through the free market; and commissions received by agents of foreign firms. Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital may be made freely through the free market by residents and nonresi­ dents. The Charter of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of inter­ est, profits, and amortization. Private capital outflows may be effected through the official market only if so registered. Incoming capital may be sold freely in the free market if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital returning from abroad. The only out­ ward transfers of capital permitted to be made at the official rate are repayments on certain private and public debts and certain amortization on registered foreign capital. Gold On ly the Central Bank is permitted to purchase or sell gold. A ny physical or jur id ical person who has or acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank within 60 days from the date on which they became his property; small amounts in coin co l­ lections, jewelry, or family keepsakes are exempt. Imports and exports of gold are made only by the Cen- 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O S TA R I CA tral Bank. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes during 1971 January 6. Imports from Honduras became subject to a "customs guarantee" (fianza) equivalent to the duty in the external customs tariff of the Central Ame r ican Common Marke t; some raw materials could be exempted by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. June 18. Imports of many commodities of Central Ame r ican origin required a "customs guarantee" in the amount of the customs duties in the C A C M 's external tariff. June 19. The Central Bank invoked A r t ic le 97 of its Charter and reintroduced a dual exchange market. (The exchange rate system had been unified since Decem­ ber 23, 1969.) In the official market the existing buy­ ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were main­ tained at 0 6.62 and 0 6.65. The payments and receipts eligible for the official market were mainly the follow­ ing: payments for imports of in i t ia l ly certain commodi­ ties on a list of essentials and subsequently some 400 commodities specified in three lists A, B, and C; pay­ ments in respect of commitments that had been entered into before June 19; government payments; student remittances; family remittances; profits, dividends, and amortization on private foreign capital whose entry had been registered at the Central Bank; royalties approved by the Central Bank; insurance premiums; export pro­ ceeds; normal incidental expenses on exports; and regis­ tered inflows of private foreign capital. Foreign exchange for imports of goods not on Lists A, B, or C and for payments not eligible for the official market could be purchased freely in the free market and inward transfers (with the exception of export proceeds) could be made freely through that market. Imports from C A CM countries and Panama were to receive official exchange only if included in the lists of essential imports. Official exchange was not granted for essential goods of n o n - C A CM origin if comparable commodities ( in terms of price, volume, and quality) were produced in Costa R i ca or elsewhere in Central Ame r ica. June 22. The Central Bank established fixed exchange rates in the free market of 0 7.50 buying, and 0 7.53 selling, per U S $ 1. At the same time, commercial banks were prohibited from selling foreign exchange in the free market. As a result, an active "curb" market with more depreciated exchange rates began to be operated by the exchange houses. July 1. A trade agreement was signed with Bu lgar ia. To the extent possible, trade was to be balanced. July 5. The Central Bank set new fixed rates in the free market, at 0 8.57 buying, and 0 8.60 selling, per US $ 1. Commerc ial banks were authorized to deal in the free market at these rates. 114 July 12. The Cen tral Bank Board introduced exchange surcharges of 15 per cent and 30 per cent on payments for imports from a ll sources of goods on L is ts B and C, respectively, and suspended commercial bank pur­ chases of foreign exchange in the free market. The exchange surcharges were payable to the Central Bank at the time the foreign exchange was purchased by the customer. The surcharges were calculated on the official buying rate (0 6.62 = US$1) and gave rise to effective selling rates of 0 7.60 and 0 8.60. Imports of L i st B and L i st C goods were exempt from the surcharges when paid for through the free market. July 27. The Central Bank announced that imports from C A CM countries and Panama, to the extent that these commodities were covered by free trade agree­ ments and were not manufactured also in Costa R ica, were eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate of exchange and exempt from exchange surcharges. L ist A goods produced in sufficient quantity and quality in Costa R i c a, Cen tral Ame r ica, or Panama would be treated as L ist B goods when originating in third coun­ tries. Official exchange was granted for raw materials for the production of goods equal or similar to those imported from Central Am e r i ca or Panama, and, on the recommendation of the M in is ter of Agr icu l ture and Livestock, for seed and agricultural implements. August 12. L aw N o. 4812 came into force. Foreign pensioners and nonemployed persons were required to have a monthly income from foreign sources of at least US$300 to qualify for residence in Costa R i c a. August 18. Banks were directed to suspend purchases of U. S. dollars in the free market. August 23. Exchange transactions continued to take place at the pre-August 15 buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar of 0 6.62-0 6.65 in the official market and the pre-August 15 selling rate of 0 8.60 in the free market. Bank purchases of U. S. dollars in the free market remained suspended; they were resumed on September 13 (see be low ). September 13. N ew free market rates were set at 0 7.87 per U. S. dollar (buying) and 0 7.90 per U. S. dollar (se l l ing). The official market rates remained unchanged at 0 6.62-0 6.65 per U S $ 1. Banks were authorized to resume purchases of U. S. dollars in the free market. September 20. App rov al practices for the transfer abroad of interest and dividends were modified; the new rules applied also to credit taken up abroad, whereas the o ld ones applied to foreign direct invest­ ments only. Henceforth, decisions would be made on a case-by-case basis as to the percentage of interest or dividends that could be transferred through the official market. F or interest transfers, the External Commerce Department of the Central Bank would take these deci­ sions, and for dividends the Board of Directors (Com i- sion de Ge renc ia ). Previously, annual transfers of dividends and interest through the official market were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted up to 10 per cent (for both combined) of the amount shown to have been invested. October 11. The free market rates were depreciated to 0 8.22 per U . S. dollar (buying) and 0 8.25 per U . S. dollar (se l l ing). October 20. The free market Ta\es weTe deprecated to 0 8.57 per U. S. dollar (buying) and 0 8.60 per U . S. dollar (selling). December 20. The buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained unchanged at 0 6 .62- 0 6.65 in the official market and at 0 8.57-0 8.60 in the free market. C O S TA R ICA 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound. The intervention currency is sterling, with exchange transactions being effected within 2% per cent of the effective parity against sterling ( £C 1 = <£ stg. 1 ). Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 was US$2.55% buying, and US$2.55% selling, per <£C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus and trade controls by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank has been delegated to the authorized banks. Au thor i ty to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marke t ing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus G r a in Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and settle­ ments between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling A r ea countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with countries covered by bilateral payments arrange­ ments 1 must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated in pounds sterling. Payments to other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Accoun t, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any non- Sterling A r ea currency except Rhodesian pounds. Set­ tlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regula­ tions; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling A rea, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling A r e a. Resi­ dents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks non­ resident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized pay- 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 116 ments from the Sterling A r e a, with transfers from other Ex ternal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Ex ternal Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for pur­ chases of non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited w i th (1) payments from External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling A r ea that are made by check, b i l l, or draft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accoun ts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of any country made by check, b i l l, or draft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevo­ cable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodesia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling A r ea for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) l iv ing expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his family, (4) insurance premiums payable to companies in the Sterling A r ea on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his family, (5) bank charges due to author­ ized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and cashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts. B locked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. B locked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the non­ resident beneficiary or credited to an Ex ternal Account without prior reference to the Central Bank, but cannot be credited to the Blocked Accoun t. Funds can be released from B locked Accounts in the following circum­ stances: On application by the authorized bank con­ cerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's ch i ldren; (2) reasona­ ble l iv ing expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable institu­ tions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under (1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution each nonresident holder of blocked funds of up to £C 1,000, as well as a further amount of up to £C 5,000 in any calendar year, provided that the amount applied for in respect of the latter release repre­ sents the proceeds of redemption or sale of securities that were held for account of the nonresident bene­ ficiary for a continuous period of at least four years.2 Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Imports of virtually a ll commodities may be made freely from any other country except A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge r­ many, Hungary, N o r th Ko r e a, Po land, Rumania, Tibet, the U. S. S. R ., and No r th V i e t -N am. Certain goods may not be imported freely (some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial machinery); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East­ ern Germany, Hungary, Po land, Ruman ia, and the U. S. S. R. are permitted in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and payments agreements. W i th respect to A lban ia, mainland Ch in a, No r th Ko r e a, Mongo l ia, Tibet, and N o r th V i e t -N am, no formal trading arrange­ ments exist but certain barter transactions take place from time to time. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts up to <£C 10 in value (not to be sold), for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for a ll permitted imports may be made freely, but the authorized dealers' authority to effect payment without reference to the Central Bank is for advance payments in respect of imports from countries outside the Sterling A r ea limited to the equivalent of £C 100. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. A ll remittances to countries outside the Sterling A r ea require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. F or certain cate­ gories of payments, limits are imposed, mainly for the purpose of preventing i l l ic it capital outflow. F or study abroad, the lower limit is £C 500 a year, and the upper limit is £C 1,700 a year; the amount allowed depends -For any amounts blocked before December 1, 1969, the period from the date the funds were blocked up to November 30, 1969 will count against the four-year period, provided that the funds involved were invested in such securities before December 31, 1970. C Y P R US on the cost of l iv ing in the country concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the M idd le East, £C 550; in the Un i ted States and Canada, £C 1,700; in other coun­ tries, £C 1,050. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on presentation of documentary evi­ dence. F or tourist travel, the l im it is £C 250 a person annually; for business travel £C 10 to £C 40 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rho­ desia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equiva­ lent of £ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marke t ing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus G r a in Commission. Exports to Sterling A rea countries, with minor excep­ tions, are free from licensing, irrespective of their amount; exports to other countries are free from licens­ ing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed £C 75. Goods destined for countries outside the Sterling A r ea are sub­ ject to a further control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in non-Sterling A r ea currencies must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling A rea curren­ cies must be sold to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus cur­ rency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or pay­ ments in Sterling A r ea currencies. Receipts in other cur­ rencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require pr ior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of coun­ tries outside the Sterling A r ea require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering appli­ cations, due regard is given to the purpose of the invest­ ment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing indus­ tries. Foreign investment involving participation in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C Y P R US Fore ign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling A r e a, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling A r e a, may transfer abroad up to <£C 5,000. A ny excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Accoun t. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require pr ior permission from the authorities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Au thor ized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the per­ mission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1971 August 16. Foreign exchange transactions were sus­ pended. August 23. The Central Bank resumed transactions in sterling. The Cyprus pound remained at par w i th sterling and began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the pre-August 15 rate for which had been <£C 1 = US$2 .40. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The Cyprus pound remained at par with sterling. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became «£C 1 = US$2 .60571. Cyprus would avail itself of wider margins. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 wh ich is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French F ranc Area, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the F rench franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settle­ ments with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc mar­ ket at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Dahomey's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and T e r r i­ tories (except the F rench Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Dahomey itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan­ cial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. F or purposes of certain capital con­ trols, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate- General of Econom ic Affairs in the M in is t ry of Economy and Planning, wh ich also supervises borrow- 1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward direct invest­ ment, a ll investment in foreign countries, and the so l ic i­ tation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco­ nomic Affairs in the M in is t ry of Economy and P lan­ ning, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and Planning personally. Exports of diamonds require the prior approval of the Director­ ate of M ines. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Import certificates for liberalized commodities originating in O E CD countries other than Japan are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments w i th France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera­ tions Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through cor­ respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in F rancs .2 A ll settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of C FA banknotes, French bank­ notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for B C E AO banknotes mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Cotonou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents for credit to the accounts opened for the latter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Eastern Ger­ many, Egypt, and Hungary. The agreement with Eastern Germany has never been ratified. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D A H O M EY Rhodesia, or South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from a ll sources. Imports of all other goods originating in coun­ tries in the F rench Franc A r ea may be made freely without an import license. Imports of a ll other goods originating in E EC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in O E CD countries other than Japan and only require an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in O E CD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in n o n -O ECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a French-Dahomean Comm i t­ tee, in which both countries have equal status, as pro­ vided for by the Econom ic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, a global quota is estab­ lished for imports from all countries outside the French Franc A r ea except E EC countries. Certain French tex­ tiles processed in foreign countries are licensed sepa­ rately. A ll imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than C F AF 20,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship­ ment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 75,000 a trip for each person ( C F AF 37,500 for children under ten) for two trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Dahomey must be surrendered. F or business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 200,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Dahomey is permit­ ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign 120 countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, F rench banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i on they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or the equivalent of C F AF 25,000 if they have made no declaration, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for C FA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to a ll foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at over C F AF 50,000. Exports to a ll countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate-General of Econom ic Affairs. Exports of gold require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance personally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Director­ ate of Mines. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must normally be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destina­ t ion and surrendered by sale on the official exchange market within two months of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resi­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the F rench Franc A r e a; resident travelers must within eight days surren­ der any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travel­ ers checks in excess of C F AF 5,000 they bring in. Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Capital movements between Dahomey and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital trans­ fers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct invest­ ment and a ll outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i­ tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the F rench Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over a ll publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib­ ing to real estate building operations abroad; these spe­ cial controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of Dahomey require pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of E con­ omy and P lann ing .3 Fore ign direct investments in Dahomey 4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Econ­ omy and P lann ing before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the decla­ ration during wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Dahomean investments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the M in is ter of Economy and Planning within 20 days following each operation. D irect invest­ ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con­ sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and P lann ing. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec­ tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and :! Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. 11 Including those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. D A H O M EY Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as ind i­ cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchant- ing firms (approved by the Minister of Economy and Planning) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain condi­ tions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con­ stituting a direct investment requires the special authori­ zation of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Planning. The lending of C FA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted, subject to ex post reporting to the Directorate-General of Econom ic Affairs and to the B C E A O. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 pro­ vides for preferential status that may be granted to for­ eign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development.5 Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials neces­ sary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of P lan A, exemption during the first 5 years of operation from the tax on industrial and commercial profits as we ll as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, P lan C guarantees marketing stabilization for prod­ ucts, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advan­ tages. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori­ zation by the M in is ter of Economy and Planning, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up r> A new investment code came into force on January 8, 1972. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D A H O M EY to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 May 19. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 50,000 a person a year to C F AF 75,000 a person a trip, for two trips a year. The allocation for business travel was increased to the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 200,000 a trip. The foreign exchange booklet {carnet de change) was abolished. August 19. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. (This measure was revoked on January 18, 1972.) September 9. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Dahomey. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = U S $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, wh ich were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. December 9. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. December 9. The lending of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years was freely permitted. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. December 24. The exchange rate for the French franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish K rone. The central rate is D Kr 6.98 = US $ 1, and Denmark avails itself of wider margins. The official limits for the U. S. dollar are D Kr 6.823 buying, and D Kr 7.137 selling, per U S $ 1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Ma rket rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most often.1 Au thor ized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward for up to 12 months with one another and with their foreign correspondents in a ll currencies, including Danish kroner (other than Dan ish kroner on East German accounts). Fo rwa rd premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Fo rwa rd transactions w i th residents must cover contractual pay­ ments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Pursuant to UN Security Coun c il Resolution N o. 253 (1968), restrictions for security reasons are applied to virtually a ll payments and transfers to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from M ay 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Dan ish Monetary A r ea comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands; the latter has its own currency, however. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange con­ trol authority. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce, the M in i s t ry of Agr icu l ture, or the M in i s t ry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu­ dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exceptions to this rule are that payments to Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts and that virtually a ll payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia must be credited to a Cap i tal Accoun t. Payments from Eastern Germany are normally settled through inconvertible krone accounts, but may also be settled otherwise. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Cap i tal Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play an insignificant part in foreign settlements and East German accounts. K rone accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of D Kr 75,000 (on a ll krone accounts together that are held by one nonresident) are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each quarter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by author­ ized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of D Kr 40,000 available to each person during the first year after emigration. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and one year after emigration the bal­ ances are made convertible. Cap i tal accounts are also kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with sav­ ings banks and small cooperative banks. These accounts are kept mainly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules governing such accounts follow broadly the same principles as those established for convertible K rone Accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licens­ ing from all sources. The import licensing system is based on three negative commodity lists and three country lists. Commodities listed in Annex 1A to Execu­ tive Order N o. 489 issued by the M in is ter of Commerce on December 15, 1970 (as amended) require a license irrespective of country of purchase or origin. A ll com­ modities require a license when purchased from or originating in countries or territories listed in Annex 2 III (A lban ia, mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, Eastern Germany, No r th Ko r e a, Mongo l ia, Rhodesia, and N o r th V i e t -N am ). 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D E N M A RK Goods listed in Annex 1C require a license when purchased from or originating in countries of Annex 2 II (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po land, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R .) or Annex 2 III (see above). Goods specified in Annex IB require a license when purchased from or originating in countries of Annex 2 I (Japan, the Republic of Ko rea, and the R y u k yu Islands) or Annexes 2 II and 2 III (see above). W i th these exceptions, imports are free of license, provided that for the countries of Annexes 2 I and 2 II the country of origin and the country of purchase are identical. Imports originating or purchased in Rhodesia are not being licensed. Some of the goods in the three commodity lists are subject to global or bilateral quotas, but most are being licensed automatically when o r ig i­ nating or purchased in countries of Annex 2 II. On ly cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. Imports of bread grain, feed- grain, and certain grain products are subject to equal­ ization charges representing the difference between specified m in imum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Dan ish ports. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia is prohibited. W i th this exception, payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within two years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through cus­ toms, or within five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and major plants, provided that pay­ ments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, com­ mercial credits with the latest day of payment within 90 days from inward clearance can be paid at any time w i th in that period if any savings are achieved as a result. The authorized exchange dealer may make pay­ ment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within two weeks from the date of payment. For ships, aircraft, heavy machin­ ery, and major installations, advance payments cannot be made more than 14 days before the date stipulated as the latest permissible date in the contract, and not more than one year before the expected inward clearance of the goods (or the recording in a Danish ship regis­ ter). Documentary credits for imports may be estab­ lished up to 90 days (180 days for specified Far Eastern countries) before the expected date of inward clearance. A ll other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Na t ional Bank; they are approved when the payment is genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade. M any commodities are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent; the principal exemptions are for raw materials and foodstuffs. Payments for Invisibles The Na t ional Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments by 124 residents, including foreign nationals temporarily work­ ing in Denmark, for most invisibles to be made freely, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade); only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Au thor ized banks are empowered to allow the transfer up to D Kr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den­ mark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer is made to the remittor's own account abroad. Transfers of up to D Kr 2,000 for any permitted pur­ pose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than two weeks before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of D Kr 2,000. Fore ign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange deal­ ers, provided that the amount does not exceed D Kr 2,000 for each transaction. Payments of any k ind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or educational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely D Kr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank­ notes or other means of payment. The D Kr 2,000 l im it may be exceeded by nonresidents, who may export any amount of Dan ish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the excep­ tion of products intended for strictly medical purposes, educational material or other equipment for schools and the l ike, publications, and news material. Exports to any country of major agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture or the M in i s t ry of Fisheries. Exports of poultry, bacon, and cheese to the United K ingdom are licensed up to annual quotas and exports of pigs and pork to E EC countries are subject to export levies. Exports of other agricultural products are per­ mitted freely to a ll countries except Rhodesia. Exports of a ll products to C M EA countries and specified Far Eastern countries and exports of a few industrial prod­ ucts to a ll other countries require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regulations being to safeguard the fulfillment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to import­ ing countries, and to serve strategic purposes. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the Na t ional Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Fore ign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the Na t ional Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding D Kr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the Na t ional Bank per­ mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds ( see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Dan ish bank­ notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Dan ish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repur­ chase the transferor's own bonds (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad), to lend amounts not exceeding D Kr 200,000 in a calen­ dar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and so forth, or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct invest­ ments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount w i th in the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. The Na t ional Bank has granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, for account of their resident customers in connection with direct investments or w i th the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The authority is limited to D Kr 40,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments and to D Kr 40,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate. Permission from the Na t ional Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved, but portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Loans and credits invo lv ing nonresidents and made in connection with commercial transactions are normally permitted, subject to certain limitations. The net "commerc ia l" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers is subject to limitation; for commercial banks this posi­ tion cannot exceed 15 per cent of their equity capital. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to D Kr 40,000 for each person during the first D E N M A RK year after emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Cap i tal Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handicrafts, the hotel busi­ ness, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than D Kr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission from the M in is t ry of Commerce, wh ich is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obliga­ tions as a member of the Organization for Econom ic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the M in is t ry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Dan ish kroner wh ich do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or sub­ scribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Dan ish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of investments in Den­ mark. Moreover, the sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds expressed solely in Danish kroner and listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange is freely permitted w i th in an annually established quota; the quota for 1971 was D Kr 100 m i l l ion (cost p r ice ), provided that sales were effected for the account of the Na t ional Bank of Denmark .2 In addition, nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted daily, ane expressed solely in Dan ish kroner, and do not represent direct investment when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Dan ish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, further, grant loans of up to D Kr 5 m i l l ion per borrower in a calendar year to finance the bor­ rower's own enterprise in most industries, provided that the activity in question does not exclusively or essentially consist in financing, trading in real estate, or certain building and construction activities, and provided that the maturity is at least five years. F ina l ly, they may grant loans up to D Kr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and the l ike, and to members of the nonresident's family. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special per­ mission of the Na t ional Bank, but their foreign borrow­ ing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. -On January 13, 1972 a new quota of DKr 100 million was estab­ lished for 1972; sales again had to be effected for the account of the National Bank of Denmark. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D E N M A RK Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of a ll typej of investments and transfers of a ll other l iqu id funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Dan ish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of pr inc ipal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident must not be amortized or repaid in fu ll more than 14 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the customary date in the trade; commercial credits for wh ich the latest permissible date of payment under the contract lies within 90 days from inward clearance may be repaid at any time within that period if it results in any savings. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above D Kr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regula­ tions, the details of wh ich are established by the Na t ional Bank, or, when exports of specified multiple currency Dan ish bonds are concerned, by the M in is t ry of the Interior. Bona fide imports of Dan ish securities payable only in Dan ish kroner are permitted. Exports of Dan ish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are nor­ mally permitted also. Dan ish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain excep­ tions, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only w i th the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. Gold Residents may freely buy, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Denmark. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to ac­ quire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 15 per cent but not to customs duty. Domestic transac­ tions also are taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. Changes during 1971 January 26. It was made clear that the general regu­ lations applicable to residents' payments to foreign coun­ tries were applicable also to the transfer by foreign 126 nationals residing in Denmark of their wages and sala­ ries, e.g., for family remittances, gifts, and family loans; moreover, premiums for existing life and annuity insur­ ance could be transferred. A l s o, authorized banks were empowered to allow the transfer up to D Kr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person concerned had not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer was made to the remittor's own account abroad. In addition, it was made clear that the total balance on a ll krone accounts held by nonresidents in excess of D Kr 75,000 must be transferred abroad at the end of each quarter. February 26. Nonresidents were permitted to pur­ chase Dan ish bonds, denominated in Dan ish kroner only and listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange L i s t, up to an amount of D Kr 100 m i l l ion (sales price plus 1 per cent broker's fee less interest) during 1971, provided that the sale was effected for the account of the Na t ional Bank of Denmark. April 27. Dan ish issuers of bonds denominated not exclusively in Danish kroner could as a rule freely pur­ chase such bonds abroad for repatriation or liquidation, provided that the securities were quoted on an author­ ized stock exchange abroad. May 28. The annual ceiling of D Kr 1 m i l l ion on financial loans taken up abroad on terms of five years or more by certain categories of business enterprises was raised to D Kr 5 m i l l ion, and the rules for such loans were revised. May 28. The regulations on payments for certain services, inc lud ing educational fees, royalties, and insur­ ance premiums, were liberalized; payments could now be made through an authorized dealer for up to one year at a time, but at the earliest 90 days before the period covered by the payment. May 28. Documentary bills covering imports of goods and payable in Denmark could be discounted by author­ ized dealers, acting as agents of their foreign corre­ spondents, provided that the bills would fa ll due in no more than 90 days. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The official buying rate for the U. S. dol­ lar was suspended, while the official selling rate for the U. S. dollar and the par value of the Dan ish krone were maintained. As a result, the krone began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relation­ ship for wh ich had been D Kr 7.50 = U S $ 1. October 1. The voluntary agreement with the Na t ional Bank was suspended, under wh ich authorized banks had deposited in a special account w i th the Na t ional Bank the counterpart of any increase in their total net foreign liabilities. October 21. An import surcharge of 10 per cent was introduced, except for various essential items, primarily certain raw materials. The surcharge wou ld be reduced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D E N M A RK to 7 per cent as of July 1, 1972 and to 4 per cent as of January 1, 1973; it was to expire at the end of M a r ch 1973. November 29. Rules governing the net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers were introduced, to take effect from December 1, 1971. The net "commerc ia l" foreign position was defined as the balance of (1) a ll assets in foreign currencies and Danish kroner with nonresidents, and (2) all liabilities in foreign currencies to nonresidents and the liabilities in Danish kroner to foreign correspondents, shipowners, and insurance companies. Th is position was required to be at a ll times at least zero and at most D Kr 2 m i l l ion, although commercial banks could at any given moment have a net "commercial" foreign position equal to 15 per cent of their equity capital. December 21. A central rate of D Kr 6.98 per US$1 was established. Denmark availed itself of wider mar­ gins and set the official margins for the U. S. dollar at D Kr 6.823 buying and D Kr 7.137 selling. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Dom in ican Peso. The central rate is RD$1 .00 = U S $ 1. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. Exchange transactions in U. S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dom in ican Republic and other banks take place at RD $1 = US $ 1, plus a commission of V32 of 1 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the central rate, subject to banking commissions of % of 1 per cent buying and V2 of 1 per cent selling. W i th the exception of payments for imports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, a ll payments abroad must be made through banks, and a ll exchange received must be sold to banks. The com­ mercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank a ll exchange purchased. There is a tolerated paral­ lel exchange market. On August 1, 1953, the Dom in ican Republic notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agree­ ment. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is admin­ istered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board estab­ lishes import quotas, which are administered and con­ trolled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports from the Un i ted States that are financed by the U. S. A ID must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements with Co lomb ia and Venezuela may be effected through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements;1 pay­ ments for o il imports, however, may not be made through these accounts. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 80 categories of goods, including automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2 ,000, are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted by quotas. A ll commodities are exempt from quota and prohibition when they are financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; such imports are also exempt from prepayment of import taxes and sur­ charges. Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities, however, for reasons of health or security. 1 Under these agreements, import collections and other payments to Colombia and Venezuela are settled promptly. 128 A ll payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the importers' own exchange. Insurance on imports must be effected with companies authorized to operate in the Dom in ican Republic. Commodities subject to quantitative restrictions can be imported and settled with official exchange only against a fully prepaid letter of credit. The same require­ ment applies to some other goods that are not subject to quantitative restrictions, including alcoholic beverages, Venetian blinds, some perfumes and cosmetics, electric ovens, freezers and refrigerators, record players, and certain construction materials. Some 20 other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for a ll imports against letters of credit. After the Central Bank approves an application and the importer (where necessary in accordance w i th Decree N o. 239) prepays import duties and surcharges to the customs, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial bank for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. Importers of most commodities subject to the prepaid letter of credit obligation are also required to prepay to the cus­ toms 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and surcharges on the goods pr ior to the opening of the letter of credit. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available within not more than five working days from the receipt of the application, but since M ay 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange. Most imports are subject to an internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. V i r tu a l ly a ll imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internos) ranging from 20 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 5 per cent. Certain foodstuffs are exempt from import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of sea­ sonal shortage. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is given only after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel and insurance other than insurance on mer­ chandise imports is suspended. Allowances for family remittances and medical expenses are rarely granted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A i r l ine tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD $ 2 00 or from RD $5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonresidents working in the Dom in ican Republic may remit abroad for any purpose up to 60 per cent of their salaries. F or students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$200 for studies in La t in Ame r ica, Puerto R i co, and Spain, and up to US$230 for studies in the Un i ted States (except Puerto R i c o ), Canada, and other European countries. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in con­ formity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends on foreign investments made on or before October 6, 1970 are in principle approved on presentation of a balance sheet which has been agreed with the tax authorities, provided that taxes due on these earnings have been paid, including an 18 per cent tax on dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents; in some cases the transfer may have to be effected in monthly or quarterly installments. Profits on foreign investments made after October 6, 1970 may be remitted, subject to the flat 18 per cent tax, provided that a cer­ tificate of the Central Bank is presented certifying the genuine nature of the foreign investment and provided that the investment has been registered at the Cen tral Bank. Remittances of profits on foreign investments made after October 6, 1970 without such certification are taxed at the complementary income tax rate or at 18 per cent, whichever is higher. (The applicable com­ plementary tax rate rises progressively and is 70 per cent for dividend or profit income in excess of RD$900,000.) In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days from receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of any travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. W i th in two work ing days of receiv­ ing payment, exporters of Dom in ican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. F or the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices published by the Central Bank. Exempt from the exchange surrender requirements are foreign mining companies, and firms D OM I N I C AN R E P U B L IC operating in industrial free zones, which are only required to convert sufficient foreign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of embarkation without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surren­ dered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dom in ican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capi­ tal remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Registra­ tion may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Withdiawals of capital by foreigners leav­ ing the Dom in ican Republic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual installments. Applications by resi­ dents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio invest­ ments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authori­ ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dom in ican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1971 January 1. The maintenance allowance for students was increased from US$150 to US$175 for La t in Ame r ica, Puerto R ico, and Spain and from US$200 to US$225 for the United States (except Puerto R i c o ), Canada, and other European countries. On November 1, these allowances were further increased to US$200 and US$230, respectively. January 15. Allowances for family remittances by Dom in ican nationals (up to RD $ 50 for each beneficiary a month) and medical expenses abroad were resumed. May 21. The list of prohibited imports was enlarged to cover some chemical products. June 9. Law N o. 136 of M ay 11, 1971 increased from 3 per cent to 4 per cent the surcharge levied on customs 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D OM I N I C AN R E P U B L IC duties and import taxes by virtue of Law N o. 692 of A p r il 2, 1965. June 9. Law N o. 137 was promulgated, creating the Dom in ican Center for Export Promotion. June 16. A new M i n i ng Law, Law N o. 146, was pro­ mulgated. July 1. Decree N o. 1181 of June 22, 1971 extended the system of import controls un t il June 30, 1972. August 17. Exchange operations in currencies other than the U. S. dollar were suspended. They were resumed on September 27. August 17. Import letters of credit could only be opened in U. S. dollars. On September 27 they could again be established in other currencies as we l l. August 21. A new insurance law entered into force. It stipulated that insurance on imported goods must be effected with companies authorized to operate in the Dom in ican Republic. Importers were therefore required to conclude contracts on the basis of f.a.s., f.o.b., or c & f prices. August 23. The Dom in ican peso remained pegged to the U. S. dollar at RD $1 = U S $ 1. November 29. L aw N o. 235 extended for another year the internal consumption tax of 20 per cent levied on most imports. December 21. A central rate of RD $1 = US$1 was established. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0355468 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official market is S/ 25.00 = U S $ 1. In the official mar­ ket the Central Bank maintains rates of S/ 24.75 buying and S/ 25.25 selling per U. S. do l lar wh ich apply to export proceeds, import payments, certain capital trans­ actions, and a ll transactions by the Government or pub­ lic entities. A ll other transactions take place in a free market where the rate fluctuates and all purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 1 per cent. The free market selling rate on December 31, 1971 wa sS/ 26.96 per U S $ 1. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, w i th effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to shift trans­ actions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers w i th respect to import po l icy. The official exchange market is under the control and super­ vision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and regis­ ters foreign capital. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require the p r ior authorization of the Institute of Foreign Trade and Integration. Imports wh ich enter as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require authorization from the Finance M in i s t ry as we ll as from the Central Bank in lieu of an import license. Prescription of Currency Most settlements w i th Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Po land, and Ruman ia must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, B r a z i l, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible curren­ cies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and L ist II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. A ll goods not included in these two lists are proh ib i ted .1 1 By virtue of Decree No. 112 of March 16, 1972, books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music could be imported freely without a license; payments had to be made through the free market. P r ior import licenses are required for a ll permitted imports, with the exceptions specified below. M e d i­ cine and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$100 or less. A few goods may be imported only from L A F TA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appro­ priate advance deposits and additional import taxes have been paid, that the required prepayments of import duties have been made, and, normally, that a certificate is submitted showing that the insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the imports upon pres­ entation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports are generally prohibited. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. Imports which enter the country as gifts or as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government (mainly petroleum and mining enterprises) require an authorization from the M in is t ry of Finance and the Central Bank instead of an import license; the importer is not entitled to purchase foreign exchange at the official rate. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or lift import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. The advance deposit requirement applies to most public and private imports financed with official exchange. The main exceptions are imports under the agricultural surplus agreements w i th the Un i ted States, grants from foreign governments and organizations, imports of certain goods to be used for the construction and equipment of hotels, a ll imports from Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by international organizations or by suppliers' credit for at least one year after arr iva l, imports of medical supplies and equipment made by official health or social service institutions, imports by the universities and polytech- n ical schools, and imports of machinery, equipment, and materials needed for public works. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the importer when applying for an import license; the importer must at the same time lodge with the Central Bank a prepay­ ment in local currency of the import duty. The rates for the advance import deposits are determined in accordance with the type of good imported and the terms of payment. There are five categories of imports, 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E C U A D OR one in L ist I and four in L i st II, and three ranges of payments terms, giving a possible total of 15 advance deposit rates.2 At the end of 1971, they ranged from 10 per cent to 280 per cent of the c.i.f. value, but for imports by the Government or by official agencies they cannot exceed 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The prescribed prepayment of import duty is 100 per cent for both L ist I and L ist II commodities. Advance deposits are released pari passu w i th the making of import payments. That part of the deposits wh ich exceeds 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value is released at the time of customs clearance. Imports of crude petro­ leum receive a subsidy of S/ 7.07 per U. S. dollar invoiced on import documents. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate issued by the Central Bank on the basis of documentation approved by the M in i s t ry of Na tu ral Resources and Tou r ism that the import was effected, without relation to the import payment. fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds. Most exports are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. Du r ing 1970 a system of ad valorem taxes on the f.o.b. export value was insti­ tuted wh ich affects about 90 per cent of exports by value. The rates are 10 per cent for exports of bananas and shrimp and 15 per cent for a ll other exports, except those specifically exempted. These taxes w i ll be reduced from the second half of 1972 in such propor­ tions as to eliminate them over a five-year period. A small part of exports exempted from the ad valorem export taxes receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value at rates ranging from 4 per cent to 15 per cent. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate on the basis of customs documentation. A ll exports of bananas are subject to an additional specific tax, except those carried out through ports in Esmeraldas Province. There are other export taxes in addition to those men­ tioned above. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These invisibles are in principle limited to interest and amortization on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank, payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad. Interest payments at the official rate may not exceed IV2 per cent a year and remittances of dividends and profits at the official rate may not exceed 14 per cent of the registered value of the invest­ ment. There are also limits on student allowances eligi­ ble for the official rate; these range from US$300 to US$450 a month, depending on the type of study and on the country involved. A ll other payments for current invisibles, including travel expenditure, must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents travel­ ing abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Tickets for foreign travel are taxed at the rate of 8 per cent on tickets for departure from Ecua­ dor and 4 per cent on tickets for the return trip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require licenses to ensure, among other things, the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of bananas to help to ensure P With effect from January 20, 1972, the system was simplified. The deposit requirement became 50 per cent for List I and 100 per cent for List II goods of the c.i.f. value. Deposits for List I goods were retained for 120 days, and those for List II goods for 180 days. 132 Receipts from specified invisibles have to be sold to the Cen tral Bank at the official rate. A ll other receipts, including those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may bring i n. Capital Cap i tal may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Outward transfers through the official market are restricted. A ll foreign investments in Eucador must be registered with the Central Bank in order to be entitled to for­ eign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization. In the case of investment for wh ich exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must document that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank of Ecuador. F or foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must document that the mer­ chandise has been nationalized and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Add i t iona l ly the investor must present to the Cen tral Bank the certifica­ tion from the appropriate ministry (Finance, Na tu ral Resources and Tou r ism, or Production) that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The Exchange Department of the Cen tral Bank must submit a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank w i th in 30 days from receipt of the request for registration and a ll pertinent documentation. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Cen tral Bank must approve or deny the registration w i th in an addi­ tional 30 days. In certain cases, where a ll documenta­ tion has been submitted, the Central Bank can prov i- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sionally register the investment, for a period of up to 90 days. S im i lar ly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities must be registered with the Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Ecuador; for private loans registration is optional. In the case of suppliers' credits and similar credit for financing the importation of merchandise, no special registration procedure is required; a ll the pertinent information on terms of payment, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for pur­ chase of exchange for remittance of interest, charges, and scheduled amortization. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accu­ mulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments which have completed the registration pro­ cedure. F or investments registered on a provisional basis, no profits may be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the l im it (14 per cent a year) specified in the Foreign Invest­ ment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commerc ial banks are authorized to ma in­ tain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in con­ vertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold con­ tent represents not more than 25 per cent of its mar­ ket value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as L ist I imports and are free of advance deposit. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are treated as L ist II imports subject to advance deposit. G o ld bars are exempt from import duty, while that on semiworked gold is 70 per cent ad valorem. A ll imports of gold are payable through the official market.8 Changes during 1971 January 1. New advance import deposit require­ ments for the first quarter went into effect. They ranged from 1.92 per cent to 291.60 per cent. January 25. Decree N o. 97 of January 21 revised the taxes on banana exports. Decree N o. 106 of January 22 fixed m in imum prices that exporters of bananas must pay to producers. 3 Exchange Office Circular No. 41 of April 25, 1972 provided that imports of nonmonetary gold had to be paid for with foreign exchange purchased in the free market. However, importers could also purchase such gold from the Central Bank, which would itself purchase abroad such additional supplies as might be required, with foreign exchange acquired in the free market. At the same time, nonmonetary gold was shifted to List I, but remained subject to advance deposit. E C U A D OR February 3. Decree N o. 153-A temporarily exempted coffee exports to Annex B countries from the ad valorem taxes to which they had been made subject by Decree N o. 496 of October 13, 1970. Instead, a con­ tribution of US$1 on each 60-kilogram bag was levied on such exports. February 4. Decree N o. 144 exempted from the 20 per cent ad valorem duty a ll imports made by the Gov­ ernment, municipalities, and provincial councils. April 1. New, reduced advance import deposit requirements went into effect for A p r i l, M a y, and June. April 15. Decrees Nos. 539 and 540 implemented in part the import duty liberalization required by the Ca r­ tagena Agreement (Andean P a c t ). April 21. Decree N o. 555 was issued containing the operating instructions for the Foreign Trade Institute. April 24. Decree N o. 587 was promulgated con­ taining a new import tariff based on the Brussels nomenclature. The Decree also authorized the Gov­ ernment to impose import quotas. The additional tax imposed on L ist II imports was abolished by incorpora­ tion into the new tariff. June 3. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed w i th Bo l iv ia. It came into force on July 1. June 8. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed w i th B r a z i l. It came into force on September 1. June 16. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 580 abolished the advance import deposit requirements for goods on L ist I. June 22. The Industrial Development Law was amended. Among the new provisions was one permit­ ting certain firms to receive negotiable tax credit cer­ tificates ranging from 7 per cent to 15 per cent of the value of their exports, depending on the global f.o.b. value of such exports. June 30. Decree N o. 974 ratified the Foreign Invest­ ment Code of the Andean Pact. July 1. New, reduced advance import deposit require­ ments went into effect for July, August, and September. July 5. Decision N o. 267 of the M in is t ry of Finance provided that applications for import licenses must be accompanied by a certificate showing that the insurance had been arranged in Ecuador. Prepaid customs duties were based on the c.i.f. value. July 13. Decree N o. 1029 exempted several branches of activity from certain provisions of the Andean Pact's Foreign Investment Code. August 2. Decree N o. 1108 provided that, in accord­ ance with Decree N o. 420 of M a r ch 11, 1971, branches and agencies of foreign banks could not accept savings or fixed-term deposits from persons domiciled in Ecua­ dor; existing deposits had to be liquidated by Sep­ tember 24, 1972 or lose the right to earn interest. August 23. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at S/ 24.75 and S/ 25.25 per US $ 1. September 2. Decree N o. 1303 exempted coffee exports to Annex B countries until December 31, 1971 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E C U A D OR from the 15 per cent ad valorem tax introduced by Decree N o. 239 of August 16, 1970. Instead, a 5 per cent ad valorem contribution was imposed on these exports. September 24. Decree N o. 1447-B established new procedures for coffee exports. September 27. A new Hydrocarbons Law came into force. October 1. New payments procedures for imports went into effect guaranteeing to the importer the exchange rate prevailing on the day he made his sucre deposit at the Central Bank. October 1. New, reduced advance import deposit requirements went into effect for October, November, and December. They ranged from 3.60 per cent to 182.25 per cent. November 22. Supreme Decree N o. 1740 reintro­ duced a secondary free exchange market with a fluc­ tuating rate. (The dual exchange market had been un i­ fied in August 1970.) Imports and exports, government transactions, and other specified transactions continued to be settled in the official market, where the buy­ ing and selling rates of S/ 24.75 and S/ 25.25 per U. S. dollar were maintained. The principal settlements eligible for the official market were those relating on the supply side to exports, private registered capital, and capital for official investments by the Government and by public agencies, and on the demand side those relat­ ing to imports, interest and amortization on loans, d iv i­ dends, profits, and amortization on registered foreign investments, student remittances, and essential remit­ tances by the Government and by public agencies. A ll other settlements had to take place through the free market. The tax measures and export incentives intro­ duced by Decree N o. 239 of August 16, 1970 were maintained. The Decree also provided that the Mone­ tary Board could authorize private banks, including branches of foreign banks, to accept deposits in foreign exchange (implemented on November 24 by Monetary Board Resolution N o. 594) and it modified some export tax exemptions. Decrees Nos. 5 and 239 of June 22, 1970 and August 16, 1970 were revoked, so that the Monetary Board was empowered to shift transactions between the two exchange markets. The in i t ial rate in the free market was about S/ 26.00 per U S $ 1. November 22. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 592 re-established advance import deposits on L ist I com­ modities and increased those for L ist II imports. The rates for L ist I ranged from 50 per cent on imports payable w i th in 180 days to 10 per cent on imports for wh ich payment was not due for at least a year. The rates for L ist II ranged from 280 per cent on category 'd' imports payable within 180 days to 40 per cent on category 'a' imports for which payment was not due for at least a year. November 22. Export taxes were modified and would be abolished in stages over a five-year period. The new rate of tax was 10 per cent for bananas and shrimp, and 15 per cent for a ll other commodities. The taxes were payable upon receipt of the export license. Pro­ v inc ial and municipal governments were prohibited from imposing new taxes or charges on exports. December 2. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 596 established allocations at the official exchange rate for study abroad. December 20. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at S/ 24.75 and S/ 25.25 per US $ 1. December 22. Monetary Board Resolution N o. 599 exempted imports of raw materials by business firms from the advance deposit requirements. December 30. Decree N o. 1896 increased the tax on exit visas from S/ 400 to S/ 600. Travel by sea or land was exempt. December 30. Decree N o. 1918 imposed a 1 per cent tax on a ll exchange transactions in the free market. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency EGYPT On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the A r ab Republic of Egypt with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2 .30. The Central Bank of Egypt's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 were LE 43.4782 and LE 43.7390. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most inv is i­ ble and capital remittances. A premium of 35 per cent of the f.o.b. price is applicable in principle to the con­ vertible currency proceeds of certain agricultural exports and to convertible foreign exchange sold by foreign tourists to pay for hotel services and specified handicraft products.1 Holders of balances in specified accounts in foreign currencies may sell these funds to residents, through a commercial bank, at a premium. An exchange surcharge of 35 per cent is applicable to certain private sector payments for invisibles and to certain funds allocated to enterprises for imports needed to overcome production bottlenecks. Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for balances held in specified foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme C om­ mittee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the M in is ter of Economy and Foreign Trade, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. Exchange con­ trol is implemented under the supervision and instruc­ tions of the Under-Secretary for Economy and Foreign Trade in Charge of Exchange Operations and the Foreign Exchange Budget and the Director of Exchange Operations. The technical work of exchange control is performed by the Cen tral Exchange Con trol Department attached to the Central Bank of Egypt. The General Control Au tho r i ty for Exports and Imports controls imports and exports; it also issues import licenses for imports that do not require the transfer of foreign exchange. M any imports and most exports of traditional commodities are carried out by public sector companies. 1 On January 13, 1972 the 35 per cent premium was granted on all conversions of foreign currency by tourists, provided they did not stay in Egypt for more than three months. Payments to residents of countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible cu r r en cy ;2 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate non­ resident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Con t ro l. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payor's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible cur­ rency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Con t ro l. Settlements with countries with wh ich Egypt has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.3 Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensa­ tion for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds w i th the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account N o. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in Egypt, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of Egypt or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are three main types of nonresident accounts in Egyptian pounds: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresi­ dent C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been trans­ ferred from abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. - Convertible currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. :f Egypt has bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Jordan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U. S. S. R., North Viet-Nam, and Yemen Arab Republic. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central banks of Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Guinea, India, Mali, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E G Y PT Nonresident C Accounts m ay a lso be o p e n ed in the n ame of any non r e s id en t, i r r e sp e c t ive of h is c o u n t ry of re s idence. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th p roceeds f r om the sa le of any c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy that has been t ran s­ f e r r ed f r om a b r o a d; w i th t rans fe rs f r om F r ee N o n r e s i­ dent A c c o u n ts or o th er N o n r e s i d e nt C A c c o u n t s; a nd w i th any amoun ts a u t h o r i z ed to be c r e d i t ed to these accoun ts by the C e n t r al E x c h a n ge C o n t r o l. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed, subject to exchange c o n t r ol a p p r o v a l, f or p a y­ men ts due to res iden ts ( ex c ept f or expo r t s, Suez C a n al dues, a nd sh ip s' d i s b u r s em e n t s ); f or t rans fe rs to o ther N o n r e s i d e nt C A c c o u n t s; f or t rans fe rs to N o n r e s i d e nt D A c c o u n t s; a nd f or p aym en ts a b r o ad in c o n v e r t i b le c u r­ renc ie s. Nonresident D Accounts m ay be o p e n ed in the n ame of any re s ident of a p aym en ts ag reement c o u n t ry (see foo tno te 3 ). T he a c c o u nt mu st be de s igna ted by the n ame of the p a r t n er c o u n t ry c o n c e r n e d, a nd transfers f r om the a c c o u nt of one c o u n t ry to that of any o ther c o u n t ry m ay n ot be m ade w i t h o ut exchange c o n t r ol a u t h o r i z a t i o n. T h e se a c coun ts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th the p roceeds f r om the sa le of any c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy that has been t r an s f e r r ed f r om a b r o a d; w i th t ran s fe rs f r om a F r ee N o n r e s i d e nt A c c o u nt a n d — p r o v i d ed that exchange c o n t r ol a u t h o r i z a t i on is o b t a i n e d —w i th t ran s­ fers f r om a N o n r e s i d e nt C A c c o u n t; w i th t rans fe rs f r om o th er N o n r e s i d e nt D A c c o u n ts of the same n a t i o n a l i t y; a nd w i th a ny s um a u t h o r i z ed to be c r e d i t ed to the a c c o u n t. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or p aym en ts due to r e s i­ den ts, except f or expo r t s, S u ez C a n al dues, a nd sh ip s' d i sbu r semen t s, a n d — p r o v i d ed that C e n t r al E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol a u t h o r i z a t i on is o b t a i n e d — f or t rans fe rs to o th er N o n r e s i d e nt D A c c o u n ts a nd f or p aym en ts to the c o u n t ry in who se n ame the a c c o u nt is de s igna ted. T h e re are a lso b l o c k ed a c coun t s, to w h i ch m ay be c r e d i t ed a ny p a ym e nt to a non r e s id ent not r em i t t a b le u n d er the ex ch ange c o n t r ol r e g u l a t i o n s. T r a n s f e rs be tween b l o c k ed a c c o u n ts r e q u i re p r i or a p p r o v a l. Th e se accoun ts m ay be d eb i t ed f or amoun ts up to LE 1,000 a y e ar f or l i v i ng expenses of the a c c o u nt h o l d er or h is f a m i ly in E g y p t. T h ey m ay a l so be d eb i t ed, subject to p r i or a p p r o v a l, f or inve s tmen ts in E g y p t i an G o v e r nm e nt l o a ns or in reg i s te red shares in n om i n a t i ve f o rm of c om p a n i es e s tab l i shed in E g y p t, a nd f or s ub s c r i p t i o ns to increases in c a p i t al of E g y p t i an c om p a n i es in w h i ch the a c c o u nt h o l d er is a l r e a dy a s h a r e h o l d e r. I n c ome d e r i v ed f r om s u ch inve s tmen ts m ay be r em i t t ed to the non r e s id ent b en e f i c i a ry. B l o c k ed a c coun ts h e ld by j u r i­ d i c al pe rsons m ay be d eb i t ed f or amoun ts not e x c e e d i ng LE 1,000 a y e ar f or se t t lement of o b l i g a t i o ns due to the E g y p t i an au tho r i t i e s, p aym en ts to res iden ts f or se rv ices r end e r ed, a nd expenses i n c u r r ed in c o n n e c t i on w i th the a c t iv i t i es or r e s id en ce of the h o l d e r 's emp loyees or rep resen ta t ives in E g y p t. A ll a c coun ts h e ld by res iden ts of R h o d e s ia a lso are b l o c k e d; no t ran sac t ions on these accoun ts m ay take p l a ce w i t h o ut p r i or a p p r o v a l. In a d d i t i o n, the re are c e r t a in types of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy 136 a c coun ts that m ay be h e ld by non re s iden ts or pe rsons t rea ted f or c e r t a in exchange c o n t r ol pu rposes as n o n­ res iden ts. T h e se f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy accoun ts are of f o ur types, as i n d i c a t ed b e l ow. External Accounts of Nonresident Aliens m ay be o p e n ed in the n ame of non r e s id ent fo re igne r s. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i es t r an s f e r r ed f r om a b r o a d; f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy t r an s f e r r ed f r om o ther a c coun ts of the same t y p e; a nd b a nk in te rest on ba lances in these a c coun t s. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or amoun ts of f o r e i gn exchange s o ld to the C e n t r al B a nk of E g y pt at the o f f i c i al ex ch ange ra te to c o v er l o c al p a ym e n t s; t rans fe rs to o ther a c coun ts of the same t y p e; a nd t rans fe rs a b r o ad in any c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy f or the benefit of n o n r e s i­ dents ( o r, if the a c c o u nt is h e ld by a j u r i d i c al p e r s o n, f or the benefit of res iden ts w ho are em p l o y ed by the h o l d er of the a c c o u n t ). External Accounts of Resident Aliens m ay be op en ed in the n ame of f o r e i gn res iden ts w ho are f or exchange c o n t r ol pu rpo ses t rea ted as non re s iden ts in respect of i n c ome th ey rece ive f r om a b r o a d. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed o n ly w i th c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i es t r an s f e r r ed f r om a b r o ad a nd w i th b a nk in te rest on ba lances in these a c coun t s. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed o n ly f or amoun ts s o ld at the o f f i c i al exchange ra te to the C e n t r al B a nk of E g y pt to c o v er l o c al p a ym e n ts a nd for t rans fe rs a b r o ad in any c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy f or the benefit of the a c c o u nt h o l d e r, h is pa ren ts, w i f e, or c h i l d r e n. External Accounts of Egyptian Citizens m ay be o p e n ed in the n ame of c i t i z ens w ho for ex ch ange c o n t r ol pu rpo ses are t rea ted as non re s iden ts in respect of i n c ome th ey rece ive a b r o a d, s u ch as em ig r an ts a nd E g y p t i a ns w o r k i ng a b r o ad f or o v er five yea rs. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i es t r an s f e r r ed f r om a b r o ad a nd w i th b a nk in te rest on ba lances in these a c coun t s. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or transfers a b r o ad in a ny c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy f or the benefit of the a c c o u nt h o l d e r, h is pa ren t s, w i f e, or c h i l d r e n; f or amoun ts of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy s o ld to o b t a in an exchange p r e m i u m; a nd f or sales of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy f or E g y p t i an pounds to the b a nk at w h i ch the a c c o u nt is h e l d. Resident Accounts of Egyptian Citizens m ay be o p e n ed f or E g y p t i a ns w o r k i ng a b r o ad or p e r f o rm i ng se rv ices in E g y pt f or f o r e i gn pe r sons or firms. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i es t r an s f e r r ed f r om a b r o ad that represent t h e ir f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy i n c ome after d e d u c t i on of the p r e s c r i b ed percen tages that mu st be r e p a t r i a t e d; b a n k e r s' c h e c k s, t rave le rs ch e ck s, a nd le t ters of c r e d it d e n om i n a t ed in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c y; a nd f o r e i gn b a n k n o t e s .4 T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or t rans fe rs a b r o ad in the n ame of the a c c o u nt h o l d er w h i le he is a b r o a d; t r a v el a nd l i v i ng expenses a b r o ad of the a c c o u nt h o l d e r, h is pa ren t s, w i f e, or c h i l d r e n; transfers a b r o ad f or the benefit of the a c c o u nt h o l d er to c o v er p e r s o n al expenses; a nd sales of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy f or 4 W i th effect from January 6, 1972, these accounts could also be credited with bank interest. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E g y p t i an pounds to the b a nk at w h i ch the a c c o u nt is h e l d. Imports and Import Payments Im p o r ts of c e r t a in goods f r om a ny sou rce, a nd a ll im p o r ts f r om I s r a e l, R h o d e s i a, a nd S o u th A f r i ca are p r o h i b i t e d. No exchange is a l l o c a t ed in p r a c t i ce f or m a ny goods that are c o n s i d e r ed non e s s en t i al or that are a l so p r o d u c ed l o c a l l y. M o st im p o r ts are m a d e, u n d er the s u p e r v i s i on of tw en ty D e t e rm i n a t i on C omm i t t e e s, by p u b l i c ly ow n ed c o m m e r c i al c om p a n i es aff i l ia ted w i th the E g y p t i an G e n e r al T r a de O r g a n i z a t i o n. T he C omm i t t e es are r e spon s ib le f or d e t e rm i n i ng the o v e r a ll e x p o rt a nd im p o rt p o l i cy in respect of the c omm o d i t i es f or w h i ch th ey have been e s t ab l i sh ed. T h is i n c l u d es the d r a w i ng up of the necessa ry im p l em e n t a t i on p r o g r ams f or the a ch i ev em ent of im p o rt targets in a c c o r d a n ce w i th estab­ l i s h ed p r i o r i t i e s, a nd the e x am i n a t i on of im p o rt offers, t a k i ng i n to c o n s i d e r a t i on spec i f ica t ion s, p r i c e s, d e l i v e ry dates, a nd means of p a ym e n t. S ome im p o r ts m ay a lso be m a de by c e r t a in i n d u s t r i al a nd o ther p u b l ic sec tor e s tab l i shmen ts a nd by p r i v a te sec tor en te rp r ises. Im p o r ts of spec i f ied goods up to LE 7 ,500 a y e ar m ay be m a de ( t h r o u gh the i n t e rm e d i a ry of a p u b l ic sec tor c om p a ny w h e n e v er the v a l ue exceeds LE 2 0 0) by i n d u s t r i al p r i v a te sec tor e s tab l i shmen t s, p r o v i d ed that no t ran s fer of f o r e i gn exchange is r e q u i r e d. I n d i v i d u a ls are p e r­ m i t t ed to im p o rt ( t h r o u gh the i n t e rm e d i a ry of a p u b l ic sec tor c om p a ny wh en ev er the v a l ue exceeds LE 2 0 0) f or t h e ir o wn use spec i f ied goods up to a v a l ue of LE 3 ,000 a yea r, p r o v i d ed that no t ran s fer of f o r e i gn exchange is r e q u i r e d. F or pu rposes of a dm i n i s t r a t i o n, the e c o n omy is d i v i d ed i n to seve ral sec tors ( a g r i c u l t u r a l, i n d u s t r i a l, t r a n s p o r t a t i o n, e t c . ). T he a n n u al f o r e i gn exchange b u d­ get p r o v i d es f or a spec i f ic q u o ta f or e a ch sec to r, a nd the au tho r i t i es in cha rge of the sec tor d e c ide u p on the goods to be im p o r t ed w i t h in that q u o t a. In d r aw i ng up th is budge t, an es t ima te is m ade first of the c o u n t r y 's e x p o rt p roceeds a nd its ea rn ings f r om i n v i s i b l e s, as w e ll as the expec ted a v a i l a b i l i ty of f o r e i gn lo ans a nd o th er c r e d it f a c i l i t i e s. A l l o w a n ce is t h en m a de f or the c o m­ m i tm e n ts f a l l i ng due d u r i ng the fiscal y e ar in respect of f o r e i gn debt se rv ice a nd o th er o b l i g a t i o n s, as w e ll as p a ym e n ts f or i n v i s i b l e s. T he r em a i n i ng resou rces in c o n v e r t i b le a nd b i l a t e r al c u r r e n c i es are a l l o c a t ed to the v a r i o us sectors of the e c o n omy in a c c o r d a n ce w i th the p r i o r i t i es g i v en to the im p o rt r equ i r em en ts of e a ch. An E x t e r n al F i n a n c i ng C omm i t t ee has been estab­ l i s h ed in a c c o r d a n ce w i th M i n i s t e r i al D e c r ee N o. 6 07 of 1 9 7 1. It coo rd in a t es f o r e i gn exchange r equ i r em en ts a nd a v a i l a b le re sou rces by d r a w i ng up q u a r t e r ly p r o g r ams f or the im p l em e n t a t i on of the a n n u al f o r e i gn ex ch ange budge t. Im p o r ts m ay be a u t h o r i z ed by th is C omm i t t e e, by the G e n e r al C o n t r ol A u t h o r i ty for Im p o r ts a nd E x p o r ts (w h en the a u t h o r i z a t i on is based on a d e c i s i on of the r e l ev ant D e t e rm i n a t i on C omm i t t e e ), or by the E G Y PT E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol D e p a r tm e n t. A d v a n ce p aym en ts f or im p o r ts in excess of LE 100 r e q u i re the p r i or a p p r o v al of the E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol D e p a r tm e n t. Im p o r ts of n ew p e r s o n al effects e x c e e d i ng LE 4 00 in v a l ue a nd im p o r ts not r e q u i r i ng the t ran s fer of f o r e i gn ex ch ange are subject to im p o rt l icen se s, w h i ch are i s sued by the G e n e r al C o n t r ol A u t h o r i t y. A ll o ther im p o r ts are r egu l a t ed by ex ch ange a l l o c a t i o ns r a t h er t h an by im p o rt l icen se s. C e r t a in ex ch ange a l l o c a t i o ns f or im p o r ts by en te r­ p r ises are sub ject to an exchange su r ch a rge of 35 p er cen t. A d e v e l o pm e nt t ax of 10 p er cent of the c . i . f. v a l ue is p ay ab le on im p o r t s; the t ax is 5 p er cent f or c e r t a in h i g h ly essen t ial foodstuffs im p o r t ed by the M i n i s t ry of S u p p l y. A s t a t i s t i c al t ax of 1 p er cent of the c . i . f. v a l ue is p a y a b le on a ll im p o r ts ex c ept wh e a t. Payments for Invisibles B a n ks are a u t h o r i z ed to p r o v i de exchange f or p a y­ men ts f or c e r t a in i n v i s i b l e s; f or o the r s, the p r i or a p p r o v al of the C e n t r al E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol is r e q u i r e d. E x c h a n ge is n o r m a l ly m a de a v a i l a b le f or expenses a s soc ia ted w i th a p p r o v ed t rade t r an s a c t ions a nd o t h er c u r r e nt p a ym e n t s. E x p e n s es f or p e rm i t t ed t r a v e l, f am i ly m a i n t e n a n c e, film r o y a l t i e s, a nd s u b s c r i p t i o ns a nd fees of p r o f e s s i o n al o r g a n i z a t i o ns u s u a l ly are a p p r o v ed w i t h in spec i f ied quo ta s. P r i v a te t r a v el a b r o ad is u s u a l ly p e r­ m i t t ed w h en no exchange is a p p l i ed f o r. E g y p t i an n a t i o n a ls w ho have d epo s i t ed ea rn ings f r om t h e ir w o rk a b r o a d, or f r om se rv ices p e r f o rm ed f or non re s iden t s, in spec i f ied f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a c coun t s, m ay use t h is f o r e i gn ex ch ange f r e e ly f or a ny t r a v el expenses f or themse lves, t h e ir f am i l i e s, or t h e ir pa ren t s. O t h er res iden ts m ay pu r ch a s e, t h r o u gh l o c al b anks a c t i ng as i n t e rm e d i a r i es a nd up to spec i f ied amoun t s, the f o r e i gn ex ch ange r e q u i r ed for t r a v el expenses a nd c e r t a in o ther pu rpo ses f r om E g y p t i an n a t i o n a ls h o l d i ng c e r t a in f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n cy a c coun ts or d i r e ct f r om h o l d e rs of c e r t a in o ther f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a c coun t s. An ex ch ange su r ch a rge of 35 p er cent is l e v i ed on f o r e i gn ex ch ange r e q u i r ed f or these pu rpo se s. An ex ch ange t ax of 5 p er c ent is a p p l i ed to a ll p a y­ men ts f or i n v i s i b l es except s tuden ts' r em i t t an c e s, g o v e r n­ m e nt p aym en t s, t rans fe rs of funds f or p i l g r im a g e s, a nd t r a v el financed w i th funds f r om spec i f ied f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n cy a c coun t s. T r a v e l e rs m ay not e x p o rt E g y p t i an p o u nd b a n k n o t e s. F o r e i gn tou r i s ts l e a v i ng E g y pt a nd E g y p t i an n a t i o n a ls w o r k i ng a b r o ad a nd r e t u r n i ng to t h e ir p l a ce of w o rk m ay t ake w i th t h em any r em a i n i ng f o r e i gn ex ch ange w h i ch t h ey h ad b r o u g ht in a nd d e c l a r e d. R e s i d e n ts m ay n ot t a ke out f o r e i gn ex ch ange in excess of the e q u i v a l e nt of LE 15 w i t h o ut spec i f ic p e rm i s s i o n. Exports and Export Proceeds A p a rt f r om expo r ts to I s r a e l, R h o d e s i a, a nd S o u th A f r i c a, w h i ch are p r o h i b i t e d, a nd c omm o d i t i es r e q u i r ed 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E G Y PT for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be submitted. Exports of many agri­ cultural products are organized and supervised by Deter­ mination Committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. A premium of 35 per cent of the f.o.b. price is applicable in principle to the convertible currency proceeds of exports of citrus fruits, fresh vegetables, potatoes, groundnuts, and cer­ tain handicraft articles (Khan el K h a l i li products). Certain nontraditional exports may be eligible for ad hoc subsidies. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months from the date of shipment of the goods. P ro­ ceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified coun­ tries may be settled through indemnity accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles A 35 per cent premium is applied to foreign exchange remitted by Egyptians abroad and sold to a bank, and to foreign currency sold by tourists to pay their hotel bills (but see footnote 1 ). Physical persons who are considered nonresidents (emigrants of Egyptian nationality, Egyptian nationals who have been resident abroad for at least five consecu­ tive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in Egyp t) are not obliged to transfer to Egypt any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in foreign currency accounts. Egyptian nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calendar years or who perform services for nonresidents are obliged to repatriate fixed percentages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in foreign currency accounts. W i th these exceptions, a ll persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, w i th in one month from the date of their collection abroad, a ll proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from Shipping Account N o. 1, wh ich may be credited only w i th the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Accoun t. Certain travel in Egypt by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts or, under indemnity agreements w i th specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring i n, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn­ ings in specified foreign currency accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, 138 including transfer abroad. W i th this exception, outward capital transfers by residents are severely restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer funds and /or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family; in addition, they may export freely personal effects and furniture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring securities or other capital assets outside Egypt require ind iv idual licenses, wh ich normally are not granted except for transfers to some A r ab countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Cap i tal transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in Egypt against payment in foreign cur­ rencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Cer ta in categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on N o n­ resident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require pr ior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endowment policies on surrender or at maturity; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a fam i ly — irre­ spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. A ny amount above this l im it is credited to a blocked account. A ny payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regula­ tions must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment L aw of September 23, 1971 defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are con­ sidered on an ind iv idual basis. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewelry in Egypt. The monetary authorities and author­ ized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other form. There is a free market for gold coins in Ca i ro. W i th the exception of monetary gold, most imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. Changes during 1971 January 1. New bilateral trade and payments arrange­ ments with Spain came into force. The existing pay­ ments agreement was terminated. May 23. M in is te r ial Order N o. 553 amended certain exchange control regulations concerning the purchase of foreign currency by persons leaving the country for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a vacation. The pr inc ipal change was an increase from LE 5 to LE 15 in the amount of exchange they could purchase without special permission. May 23. M in is ter ial Order N o. 554 revised the regu­ lations on resident and nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. Henceforth, four types of accounts were distinguished: External Accounts of Nonresident A l iens, External Accounts of Resident A l iens, External A c­ counts of Egyptian Citizens (emigrants and persons who had worked abroad for over five years), and Resident Accounts of Egyptian Citizens (persons work­ ing abroad, working in Egypt for foreign firms, or furnishing other services in Egypt to firms or persons abroad or to foreign nationals in Egyp t ). June 1. L aw N o. 33 of M ay 9, 1971 amended Law N o. 149 of 1964, which on A p r il 10, 1964 had intro­ duced an exchange tax of 5 per cent on all payments for invisibles and capital transfers except students' remit­ tances, funds for pilgrimages, and government pay­ ments. These exemptions were maintained. The modifi­ cation aimed at defining precisely the concept of Pub l ic Treasury, in view of the exemption accorded to the Treasury's transfers. June 1. M in is te r ial Order N o. 607 established an External Finance Committee, to replace the Finance Committee. July 1. Presidential Decree N o. 1770 established a General Con t rol Au tho r i ty for Exports and Imports. It would supervise the application of the export and import laws and, on the basis of decisions taken by "determination committees," authorize the implemen­ tation of import transactions. July 1. The organization of foreign trade was revised. The commodity and country monopolies of the 13 state trading companies were terminated, so that each could effect authorized imports of any commodity from any source. On the export side, the official, cooperative, and private sectors were given equal rights; only the export of staples (cotton, o i l, and rice) remained a government monopoly. Import and export orders were to be considered by 20 Determination Committees, which replaced the 10 commodity boards. The decisions on imports of capital equipment were entrusted to the Egyptian General Industrialization Au tho r i ty, with the E G Y PT exception of imports under aid agreements with foreign states. July J. The list of goods which may be imported without transfer of official exchange by industrial enter­ prises was expanded and the maximum amount that could be imported annually was raised from LE 5,000 to LE 7,500. F or imports by individuals, including those of automobiles, the annual l im it remained LE 3,000. July 1. The amount up to which Egyptian nationals who have worked abroad for a period of not less than one year may without an import license import their personal effects was increased from LE 100 to LE 400. July 25. A 35 per cent exchange premium was granted to tourists' payments for hotel services. (On January 13, 1972 the premium was extended to all conversions of foreign currency by foreign travelers in Egypt other than students or holders of visas va l id for three months or more.) July 29. Implementing regulations for the new pay­ ments arrangements with Spain were issued. August 23. The official rate for the U . S. dollar was maintained at LE 1 = US$2 .30. Rates for other curren­ cies were based on rates in international exchange markets. September 23. Foreign Investment Law N o. 65 defined the treatment of new foreign investment and provided norms for profit transfers and capital repatria­ tion. Five-year exemptions from profit tax could be granted to these investments. The law also provided for the establishment of free trade zones. September 24. A private bank, the Egyptian Inter­ national Bank for Foreign Trade and Development, was created. A reform of the banking system was announced, to become effective on July 1, 1972; the Na t ional Bank of Egypt would then be the only bank authorized to conduct financial transactions related to foreign trade. December 21. The official rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at LE 1 = US$2 .30. Egypt did not avail itself of wider margins. The buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were unchanged at piastres 43.4782 and 43.7390. December 23. The Central Bank set new exchange rates for leading currencies other than the U. S. dollar to reflect the December realignment of exchange rates. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Salva- doran Co lon. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is 0 2.50 = U S $ 1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are 02.49 buying, and 0 2.51 selling, per U S $ 1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of Vio of 1 per cent is applicable to a ll sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of Vio of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the F u nd that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Cen­ tral Reserve Bank through its Exchange Con t rol Depart­ ment. Au thor i ty to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Con t rol Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Economy or of Agr icu l ture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa R i c a, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compen­ sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay­ ments to Mex ico are also settled through the clearing­ house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign insti­ tutions or persons established in El Salvador may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U. S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. The accounts of nonresidents may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. The maximum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Con t rol Depart­ ment. 140 Imports and Import Payments Imports from a ll countries except those of the Cen tral Ame r ican Common Market must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for airplanes, firearms, ammuni­ tion, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, wh ich are granted freely, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed a certain max i­ mum (counted from the date of entry of the merchan­ dise into a customs warehouse): (1) Imports of raw materials for industry, iron and steel products for the construction industry, various spare parts, greases, and lubricants are authorized by the Exchange Con t rol Department when the terms of payment do not exceed three years.1 (2) Imports of staple food products, medicinal products, and medical and surgical supplies must be paid for within one year.2 Imports of the fo l­ lowing goods are not subject to maximum credit terms: machinery and equipment for agriculture and industry, semiprocessed goods for industrial production, surgical equipment, research and educational equipment, scien­ tific and technical books, fertilizers, and insecticides. A prior import deposit in local currency, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is applied to specified nonessential food products, confectionery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, and jewelry. A ll goods not mentioned previ­ ously in this paragraph may be imported only against payment before customs clearance. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$10 ,000 for imports from Central Ame r ican countries and US$2 ,000 for imports from a ll other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities valued at over US$500, a prior deposit of 10 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the importer as a guarantee, but industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. The deposit requirement is 100 per cent for goods valued at over US$500 that are subject to the 100 per cent pr ior import deposit; the latter may be used to finance^he deposit on the advance payment. These regulations are also applicable to goods imported from other countries of the Central Ame r ican Common 1 Four years when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1970, from which it receives loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. 2 Eighteen months when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1970, from which it receives loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Market. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement with that country and imports made by small traders and industrial producers (up to US$500 for each order and up to US$6 ,000 a year for each importer) are exempt from the ru l ing exchange control regulations. Imports originating outside the Central Ame r ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are duty free by virtue of the Industrial Incentives L aw. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Permission to purchase exchange for travel outside the Central Ame r ican area (interpreted to mean the Central Amer ican Common Ma rke t) for tourism, business, or health reasons is granted by the Exchange Con t rol Department free from deposit requirements up to the equivalent of US$600 a person a trip, on the basis of US$50 a person a day (US$300 for children under 15 on the basis of US$25 a d a y ); for amounts in excess of US$600 a person a trip, up to US$1 ,500 (for amounts in excess of US$300, up to US$750 for children under 15), a 10 per cent guarantee deposit in local currency must be lodged with the Central Reserve Bank, which is released upon the traveler's re turn .3 The Department also generally authorizes transfers of up to US$150 a month to each adult Salvadoran with permanent resi­ dence abroad; larger amounts may be authorized when the need therefor is shown. Students also are allowed US$150 a month, in addition to an installation allow­ ance, tuition, and other expenses. For nationals traveling to Central Amer ican countries, the commercial banks have been delegated authority to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa R i c a, Honduras, and Nicaragua, the equivalent of 0 500 a trip in Costa R ican colones, lempiras, or cordobas; for travel to Guatemala, Guatemalan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones up to the equivalent of 0 2,500 a trip (for pay­ ment in Guatemala through the Camara de Compensa­ tion Centroamericana). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted to the Central Reserve Bank. Inter­ national sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance con­ tract was registered with the Exchange Con t rol Depart- 8 Exchange up to the equivalent of US$500 (in excess of US$600) for specific clinic or hospital expenses abroad is exempt from the guarantee deposit requirement. EL S A L V A D OR ment at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and peri- oclieally obtain from the Exchange Con t rol Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surren­ dered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This l im it is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the pro­ ceeds of a ll exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surren­ dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Con t rol Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Con t rol Department. W i th the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren­ dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This l im it is subject to modi­ fication, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Capital A ll exchange receipts resulting from capital transac­ tions must be surrendered. Payments abroad represent­ ing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa R i c a, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital in the form of for­ eign investment may be registered with the M in is t ry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enter­ prises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonre­ newable natural resources, and enterprises in the sphere of tourism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the M in is t ry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) with 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL S A L V A D OR respect to loans, interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is required, in addition to the approval of the Exchange Con trol Department, the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Economy. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the M in is t ry of Economy or the Exchange Con t rol Department in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Con t rol Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign currency for the payment of interest and amortization on short- term loans from abroad that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Con trol Department. The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks through a system of individual quotas. Decree N o. 279 of M a r ch 27, 1969 sets certain m in i­ mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a share-holding interest. F or purposes of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Cen­ tral Ame r ican Common Marke t. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author­ ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by a jew­ elers' cooperative acting on behalf of its members and other users. March Changes during 1971 March 1. The deposit requirement on sales of foreign exchange for advance payments in respect of imports was reduced from 25 per cent to 10 per cent on imports valued at over US$500 (previously US$200). F or speci­ fied luxury goods, however, the required deposit on prepayments remained at 100 per cent. March 1. The portion of the exchange allowance for tourists, business, or health travel outside the Central Ame r ican area that is exempt from guarantee deposit was increased from US$400 to US$600 a person a trip (from US$200 to US$300 for children under 15). The guarantee deposit required on excess amounts was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. 31. The amount up to wh ich commercial banks were authorized to provide exchange for imports from Central Ame r ican countries was increased from US$6 ,000 to US$10 ,000. May 18. Imports up to US$500 for each order and up to US$6 ,000 a year for each recipient were exempted from the exchange control regulations when made by small traders and industrialists. August 16. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at 0 2.50 = U S $ 1. The Central Bank's buy­ ing and selling rates remained 0 2.49 and 0 2.51. Trans­ actions in other currencies were suspended. They were resumed on August 23. November 30. Imports from Panama were exempted from the exchange control regulations when covered by the Free Trade Agreement w i th that country. December 21. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at 0 2.50 = U S $ 1. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates remained 0 2.49 and 0 2.51. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Exchange Rate System The currency of Equa tor ial Gu inea is the Equatorial Guinean Peseta, which is issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Equa tor ial Gu inea and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. No par value has been established for the Equatorial Guinean peseta. The currency is at par with the Spanish peseta, which is Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency. Rates for other currencies are based on those in the M a d r id exchange market. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Central Bank is in charge of exchange control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the Central Bank or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Fo r­ eign Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce; import licenses also require the approval of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain must be made through pay­ ments agreement accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments A ll commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program. They do not entitle importers to the necessary foreign exchange until they have been approved by the Central Bank, after which the exchange is automatically made available. Licenses for imports from Spain usually have a validity of three months, and those for other countries a validity of six months. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for current invisibles require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank, which for specified pur­ poses and up to specified amounts has delegated its approval authority to authorized commercial banks. Res iden ts1 are granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Ptas EG 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad. The standard aUocation for business travel is the equivalent of Ptas EG 2,000 a per­ son a day, subject to a maximum of Ptas EG 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition and l iv ing expenses; nonboarding students are allowed the equivalent of Ptas EG 5,000 a month for l iv ing expenses. 1 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. The transfer of wages and salaries by foreign workers is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to a country with which a payments agreement is in force, and up to 40 per cent for other countries. Exemptions allowing the transfer of a higher proportion of earnings may be requested, but nonresident aliens do not require such exemption; trans­ fers in excess of the specified limits are subject to a transfer tax of 35 per cent on any amount in excess of 60 per cent of earnings that is transferred. The same ceilings and rate of transfer tax are applicable to the transfer of business earnings and professional earnings. There are special arrangements, however, for the trans­ fer of earnings of N iger ian workers employed in Equa­ torial Gu inea. In addition, nonresident aliens are per­ mitted to withdraw up to Ptas EG 5,000 a month from their savings accounts for remittance abroad. The transfer of net investment income and net rental receipts from real estate other than urban properties is subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the amount transferred. Subject to this requirement transfers are fully permitted. In the event of at least 50 per cent of such net invest­ ment income and net rental receipts being reinvested in Equatorial Guinea, the tax is 17.5 per cent of the amount remitted. The transfer of net rental receipts from urban properties is permitted up to a maximum of 90 per cent of the amount involved, subject to a transfer tax of 35 per cent of the amount transferred. The bal­ ance must be kept in a blocked account and, subject to approval by the Central Bank, may be utilized for main­ taining or improving the property. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, etc., are permitted fully, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out Ptas EG 3,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require an export license. Bo th specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. A ll export pro­ ceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered to the Central Bank or an authorized commer­ c ial bank. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Capital A ll imports and exports of capital require approval. Cap i tal receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Central Bank or an authorized commercial bank. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E Q U A T O R I AL G U I N EA assets and financial assets by nonresidents is subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the capital gain realized; 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. Residents, as we ll as non­ residents l iv ing in Equa tor ial Gu inea, are prohibited from engaging in borrowing or lending with nonresi­ dents. Foreign investments in Equatorial Gu inea are governed by the General L aw on Foreign Investments in Equatorial Gu inea. Gold A ll purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the Central Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Changes during 1971 February 28. The Central Bank issued general regula­ tions for the application of Decree-Law N o. 1/1969. They included a definition of residents. August 23. Equa tor ial Gu inea maintained both the gold parity of its currency and the fixed exchange rate for the Spanish peseta, with which the currency remained at par. As a result, the Equa tor ial Gu inean peseta, wh ich previously had corresponded to Ptas EG 70 = U S $ 1, began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. December 20. Equa tor ial Gu inea maintained the gold parity of its currency, which remained at par with the Spanish peseta. As a result, the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar became Ptas EG 64.4737 = US$ 1. Except in transactions against the Spanish peseta, Equa tor ial Gu inea would avail itself of wider margins. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per E th iop ian Do l l a r. The effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is Eth$2.30263 = U S $ 1. The official rates on Decem­ ber 31, 1971 were Eth$2.28536 buying, and Eth$2.35444 selling, per U S $ 1. Au tho r ized banks may freely under­ take forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control A ll transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and authorized dealers under the control of the Na t ional Bank of E th iop ia. A ll payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the Na t ional Banc; a ll exports are licensed by the Exchange Con t ro l­ ler to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U. S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Con tro l ler. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely trans­ ferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require pr ior approval, except those between foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any converti­ ble currency that may be requested, but advance pay­ ment for imports is not permitted. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, ma il transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly con­ sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to wh ich they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual income net of taxes, provided that they have resided in E th iop ia for less than six years; this time l im it does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the E th iop ian Government, with an autonomous government organization, or with certain private institutions, and who have an employ­ ment contract specifically entitling them to remit a stated percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for mainte­ nance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before A p r il 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation and for a reserve prescribed by the Commercial Code, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$75 a day for a maximum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16 if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in E th iop ian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licens­ ing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the Na t ional Bank of E th iop ia within six months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Capital A ll receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no discrimination regard­ ing the currencies in wh ich foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises financed by domestic or foreign capital; these concessions include exemption from taxes for a period of five years, admission of a ll imports of machin- 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E T H I O P IA ery free of duty, and a guarantee of permission to for­ eign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxa­ t ion. U p on liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any cur­ rency. Transfers of emigrants' allowances, legacies, and savings of foreign employees upon retirement are per­ mitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Sums in excess of this amount are author­ ized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. External borrowing by the Central Government and public sector agencies requires parlia­ mentary approval, as does private sector borrowing abroad when covered by a government guarantee. Au thor ized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in E th iop ia gold coins of a special commemorative issue, as provided in Legal Notice N o. 318 of 1966; such coins are offered for sale by the Commercial Bank of E th iop ia to residents and nonresidents and may be exported by travelers. The ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adorn­ ment of which gold or platinum forms a part also is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the M in is ter of Finance, the possession or custody, in a quantity in excess of 10 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bu l l ion constitutes an offense. Certain mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the Na t ional Bank at a price slightly below US$35 an ounce. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by or on behalf of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users; those for the import of gold for industrial purposes are issued to registered importers by the Na t ional Bank on behalf of the M i n i s­ try of Finance. Changes during 1971 August 18. The E th iop ian dollar remained pegged to the U. S. dollar at Eth$2.50 - US $ 1. August 21. The spread between the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar was increased from Eth$2.475 buying and Eth$2.525 selling to Eth$2.4625 buying and Eth$2.5375 selling. September 1. The official buying rate for the U . S. dollar was restored to Eth$2.475. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became Eth$2.30263 = U S $ 1. E th iop ia availed itself of wider margins. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were set at Eth$2.25082 and Eth$2.35444 per U S $ 1. December 31. The official buying rate for the U . S. dollar was changed to Eth$2.28536. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI1 Exchange Rate System F i ji has not yet established a par value for its cur­ rency, the F i ji Do l la r, with the Fund. However, prior to independence a par value of F $l = US$1.14832 was agreed. A fixed relationship between the F i ji dollar and the pound sterling, the intervention currency, is main­ tained at <£ stg. 1 = F$2.0900. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was US$1 = F$0.802085 on December 31, 1971. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is ter of Finance operating as the Exchange Con t rol Au thor i ty, who delegates to authorized dealers (only banks are authorized dealers in F i j i) the authority to approve nor­ mal import payments. Except with the specific permis­ sion of the M in i s t ry of Finance, residents of F i ji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer a ll foreign currencies they receive.2 The M in i s t ry of C om­ merce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses. Export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency F i ji is a member of the Sterling A rea, and settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling A rea may be made freely in any Sterling A r ea currency. Payments from F i ji to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in any foreign currency except Rho­ desian currency. Payments by nonresidents of the Ster­ ling A rea to residents of F i ji may be made in any cur­ rency, but the prescribed manner of payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling A rea is payment in F i ji currency from an External Account in the Sterling A r ea or in any foreign currency. A ll payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts F i ji distinguishes between two classes of "residents" for exchange control purposes—a resident of F i ji and a resident of another country which is in the Sterling A r e a. A resident of F i ji is a person who either has lived or intends to live in the country for a period of at least three years; a resident of another country in the Sterling Area is a person who is known to have established his domicile in such a country. The bank accounts in F i ji of both classes of residents are designated resident accounts; payments from resident accounts held by resi­ dents of other Sterling A r ea countries to nonresidents of the Sterling A rea are normally subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities in the Sterling A r ea country concerned. A nonresident is a person whose country of established residence is a country outside the Sterling A rea. A non­ resident may maintain an External Account in F i ji cur­ rency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts, a ll of which may be effected without specific approval. The accounts may be credited freely with interest payments, payments from other External Accounts, the proceeds of sales of foreign currency by the account holder, and the pro­ ceeds of sales of F i ji currency which the account holder brought into F i ji or acquired with foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. In addition, Exter­ nal Accounts may be credited with payments by resi­ dents for which either a general or specific authority has been given. Foreign currency accounts are conducted on a basis similar to External Accounts. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, and imports originating in mainland Ch ina and the C M EA coun­ tries 3 require individual licenses. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when originating in countries other than those mentioned. However, import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific licenses, including butter, matches, cement, and gold. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Authorized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Authorized banks may authorize advance payments for imports from sources outside the Sterling A rea only if the goods have already left the port of shipment; in a ll other cases advance payment for goods of non-Sterling A rea origin requires the permission of the M in is t ry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in other Sterling A r ea countries may be made freely in any Sterling A r ea currency. Payments for invisibles originating in coun­ tries outside the Sterling A rea (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the M in is t ry of Finance. In principle, payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea may be made freely for a ll bona fide current transactions. 1 Fiji became a member of the International Monetary Fund on May 28, 1971. 2 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area currencies. 3 The open general license lists the countries to which it is not appli­ cable as Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI There are no restrictions on travel expenditure i n, or remittances to, countries in the Sterling A r e a. Residents of F i ji traveling to countries outside the Sterling A r ea are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance for private or business travel up to the equivalent of F$523 a journey. In addition, each traveler may take w i th him F$100 in F i ji currency, and the equivalent of F$100 in other Sterling A r ea currencies. A ny additional foreign currency required for travel purposes is granted on appli­ cation to the M in i s t ry of Finance, provided the M in is t ry is satisfied that the additional amount is required to meet genuine travel expenditures. Subject to the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance, an education allowance of F$4 ,180 is available for study outside the Sterling A r ea by students who for exchange control purposes are regarded as residents. Travelers may not take out more than F$100 in domestic currency notes and F $l in domestic coins. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control obligations in respect of exports to countries in the Sterling A r e a. Exporters are, however, obliged to collect the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling A r ea w i th in six months of the date of exportation of the goods from F i j i, irre­ spective of the currency in which the payment is being made. A ll foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without spe­ cific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for the export to countries outside the Sterling A r ea of lumber and a few other items, inc lud­ ing pearl shell and turtle shell. Irrespective of any export licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of a ll goods with an f.o.b. value exceed­ ing F$ 1,000 and for private consignment of goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$2 ,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no controls on receipts from invisibles from Sterling A r ea countries, but receipts from non-Sterling A rea countries must be surrendered to authorized deal­ ers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in F i ji notes, other Sterling A rea currencies, or non-Sterling A r ea currencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of non-Sterling A r ea currencies to an authorized dealer w i th in 30 days of return. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to other parts of the Sterling A r e a, and residents of other Ster­ ling A r ea countries may invest freely in F i j i. Foreign investment in F i ji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may 148 be given "approved status," wh ich guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Cap i tal transfers by residents to finance direct investments outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea require the specific permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance and are normally permitted only where bene­ fits w i ll accrue to F i ji w i th in a reasonably short term. The transfer of inheritances and dowries wh ich are due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the sales proceeds of a house owned by a nonresident. Resi­ dents of F i ji are also allowed to make cash gifts equiva­ lent to F$523 a year to nonresidents; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out a ll their assets, whether their destination is inside or outside the Sterling A r e a. Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur­ rency at the official rate of exchange to acquire foreign currency securities but they may, subject to pr ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Finance, acquire such secu­ rities through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Residents are not permitted to pur­ chase personal real property outside the Sterling A r e a. Portfolio investment in F i ji by nonresidents is permitted, provided that payment is made from a nonresident source; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment qualifies for repatriation. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins, but not gold bu l l ion, in F i j i. The export of gold coins and bu l l ion requires the specific permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance. G o ld imports from a ll sources require a specific import license issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers and are subject to a 25 per cent duty when of Commonwealth origin or 50 per cent when of other or ig in. G o ld jewelry may be imported free of duty from Commonwealth sources (the duty is 25 per cent for other sources) and does not require any license when valued at less than F$200. Au thor ized jewelry manufacturers are entitled to rebate to the extent of duty paid on gold imports if they prove that imported gold has been manufactured into jewelry in F i j i. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. A ll newly mined gold is sold in Aus tra l ia at free market prices. Changes during 1971 August 23. The existing relationship between the F i ji dollar and the pound sterling was maintained at <£ stg. 1 = F$2 .0900. As a result, the F i ji dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the parity rate for which had been F $l = US$1 .14832. December 21. The existing relationship between the F i ji dollar and the pound sterling was maintained at <£ stg. 1 = 2.0900. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became US$1 = F$0 .802085. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per F i n­ nish M a r k k a. The central rate is Fmk 4.10000 = U S $ 1. The Bank of F in land's official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, vary within a range of Fmk 4.008-4.192 per U. S. dollar; on December 31, 1971 they were Fmk 4.134 and Fmk 4.152 per U S $ 1. The market rates for the U. S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Market rates for certain other currencies 1 vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by F in land and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned, or, in the case of the Canadian dollar, are based on market rates abroad. The Bank of F in l and quotes daily forward rates for the U. S. dollar; otherwise, forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of mar­ ket forces. Official fixed buying and selling rates are applied to the clearing ruble. Au thor ized banks may deal among themselves, with resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U. S. dollars and other con­ vertible or externally convertible currencies. Fo rwa rd transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 months; forward transactions with resi­ dents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of F in l and operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the M in is try of Trade, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of F in land. Prescription of Currency F or prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries 2 and the convertible currency countries (a ll others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the cur­ rency of the agreement (rubles for the U. S. S. R. and Rumania, F inn i sh markkaa for mainland Ch ina, and U. S. dollars in all other cases) or in F inn ish markkaa through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the con­ vertible currency countries may be made in any conver­ tible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro­ ner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 At the end of 1971 Finland had bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. However, settlements with Czecho­ slovakia and Poland were experimentally placed on a fully convertible basis for the year 1970 and these arrangements have since been con­ tinued. Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible M a r k ka Accounts, Restricted M a r k ka Accounts, and Cap i tal Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresi­ dents in convertible or bilateral currencies.3 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kept; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Cap i tal Accounts; for payments to residents of F in land; and for withdrawals in F inn ish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for transfers abroad or w i th­ drawals in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilat­ eral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited with the equivalent in F inn ish markkaa of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of F in land to residents of convertible currency countries; with transfers from other Convertible M a r k ka Accounts; with the value of F i n­ nish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for author­ ized payments in F in land, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for trans­ fers to other Convertible M a r k k a, Restricted M a r k k a, or Cap i tal Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which F in land has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2 ). They may be credited w i th the proceeds from the sale of the currency of the country of the account holder or of any convertible currency; w i th transfers from another Restricted M a r k ka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account holder; with the value of F inn ish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in F in land in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted M a r k ka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Cap i tal Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise a ll other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible M a r k ka Account, or a Restricted M a r k ka Accoun t; with 3 Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F I N L A ND proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held in F in land by a nonresident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets administered by the account-holding bank; and w i th sums obtained from the redemption of bonds and debentures. Cap i tal Accounts may be debited for noncommercial current expenses in F in l and of and for account of the account holder and for investment in shares and in those bonds and debentures that are denominated in F inn ish markkaa, provided that the securities are quoted on the stock exchange and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder. The Bank of F in land automatically grants per­ mission for transfers abroad of funds deposited in C ap i­ tal Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the mu l t i­ lateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly a ll coun­ tries with which F in land does not have bilateral pay­ ments agreements),4 provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of cer­ tain value quotas for specified commodity groups; no industrial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1971 amounted to some 0.5 per cent of total 1971 imports. A ll remaining goods require an individual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the discretionary licensing list, which comprises only agri­ cultural commodities and petroleum products. The only commodities still subject to quantitative restriction for the multilateral area are certain agricultural commodi­ ties, certain fuels, certain fertilizers, and gold and silver. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and shipped from the U. S. S. R ., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberalized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. A ll imports of commodities originating in countries classified neither in the multilateral area nor in the bilateral area require ind iv idual licenses. The State Granary is the sole agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption. There is a state monopoly also for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted without delay for a ll permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the 4 The exceptions are the Republic of China, North Korea, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and the Republic of Viet-Nam. 150 import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. About one fourth of total imports, mainly specified consumer goods and a ll types of motor vehicles, must be paid for in cash before customs clearance. The goods in question may be stored in a free port in F i n­ land, provided that they do not cause any financial obligations of residents to nonresidents; if such an ob l i­ gation is created, payment must be effected immediately, and otherwise payment must be made not later than on withdrawal of the goods from free port storage. Pay­ ment for other imports must be made w i th in six months after the arrival of goods in the country. F or imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be author­ ized by the Bank of F in l and. Such credit is approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Payments for Invisibles W i th few exceptions (relating to transport and insur­ ance), residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with nonresidents. Pay­ ments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other con­ ditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allow­ ances and for purposes for wh ich no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of F in l and. A ll contracts invo lv ing payments to nonresidents for wh ich general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of F in land for approval. A F inn i sh resident going abroad (except for border travel) may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a tr ip. A traveler going to Denmark, No rway, or Sweden may withdraw on a savings account passbook issued by a F inn i sh monetary institution up to Fmk 500 during one journey, provided that the utilized amount of his travel alloca­ tion does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in F inn i sh notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins declared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 3,000; travelers mak ing frequent trips to neighboring countries to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining F in land's land boundary may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 200 a person a tr ip. F or a ll types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of F in l and. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of F in land or an authorized exchange dealer. However, exporters are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with F inn ish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for expenses related to exports and for author­ ized imports of raw materials intended for his own pro­ duction. The Bank of F in land may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain working balances in foreign exchange, under the super­ vision of the Bank of F in land. The import of F inn ish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of F in land. Inheritances are transferable without limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Persons who during the last calendar year have resided outside Finland and continue to do so may transfer abroad their assets in F in land in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of F in l and. Generally, the Bank of F in l and w i ll grant foreign exchange for this purpose. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible cur­ rencies or by debiting a Convertible M a r k ka Accoun t, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the He l s inki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the author­ ized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible cur­ rency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Cap i tal Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange, but pro­ ceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of F in land. A ny other transactions i n, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with converti­ ble foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Conver t i­ ble M a r k ka Accoun t, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign direct investment F I N L A ND are as follows: A ll incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of F in land, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permis­ sion liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is free. Foreign invest­ ments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Coun c i l. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The p r i­ mary reason for the 20 per cent l im it is concern for the protection of natural resources, mainly forests. D irect foreign investment in the forest and m in ing industries is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of F in land, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; invest­ ment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. F or direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. F inn ish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of articles con­ taining gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1971 January 1. The import regulations for 1971 entered into force. The amount of the global quota program for 1971 was unchanged from 1970 and there was no change in the composition of the global quotas. May 10. The Bank of F in land suspended its buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark and the Nether­ lands guilder. The officially posted fluctuation limits for these currencies also were suspended. May 10. Foreign exchange for travel to Czecho­ slovakia and Poland could be taken up in convertible currencies. May 14. The regulations of November 13, 1970 requiring cash payment for certain imports before customs clearance or before the goods were placed in a public or private bonded warehouse or entered in a free port in F in land were further modified. Cash payment 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F I N L A ND for these items was no longer required before the goods were placed in a public or private bonded warehouse or in a free port in F in land, but continued to be required before customs clearance. May 19. The Government issued a decree introducing temporary import licensing for the goods covered by impending tax legislation. The decree was to remain in force un t il the said legislation entered into force but no longer than one month from the date of the decree. It was abrogated on June 7. June 6. A 15 per cent supplementary sales tax was levied on certain consumer durables, whether imported or domestically produced. The tax expired on Decem­ ber 31, 1971. June 6. An import equalization tax ranging between 1.2 and 5 per cent and covering about 75 per cent of a ll imported manufactured goods was introduced to compensate for the "cascade" effect of taxes levied on domestically produced goods. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The Bank of F in land suspended its exist­ ing buying rate for the U . S. dollar (Fmk 4.158 per US$1) but maintained the official selling rate (Fmk 4.242 per US$1). As a result, the markka appreciated slightly in terms of the U. S. dollar. The Bank would un t il further notice give official quotations only for the U. S. dollar, the ruble, and the clearing dollar. The buying and selling rates for rubles and clearing dollars were the same as the rates that were applied on August 13, 1971 (Fmk 4.6533 buying and Fmk 4.6799 selling for rubles and Fmk 4.188 buying and Fmk 4.212 selling for clearing do l lars). The rates of exchange for other currencies would be established by the Bank of F in land and authorized foreign exchange dealers on the basis of the Bank's officially quoted U. S. dollar rates and available international quotations for the currencies concerned. September 17. The Government submitted to Pa r l ia­ ment a proposal for a generalized system of tariff preferences on imports from developing countries. November 17. Certain sales and marketing expenses incurred by a sole agent in the interest of a foreign seller were included in the customs value of trademarked goods. Th is change in customs valuation practices, wh ich did not affect duty-free goods of E F TA or U. S. S. R. or ig in, raised the value at customs clearance of the goods concerned by 1 to 5 per cent of the invoiced price. December 8. The fixed huying and selling rates for the ruble were changed from Fmk 4.6533 and Fmk 4.6799 to Fmk 4.932 and Fmk 4.960 per ruble 1. December 13. The Bank of F i n l a n d' started quoting daily forward rates for the U. S. dollar for periods of one, two, three, six, nine, and twelve months. The Bank would also quote, in special cases, rates for periods in excess of twelve months but not exceeding twenty-four months. (As regards longer-term risks, the Bank of F in land was examining special covering arrangements with the Export Guarantee Institute.) Fo rwa rd cover was available for ah transactions permitted by the foreign exchange regulations, including those connected with the taking up and servicing of loans. Au thor ized banks could cover at the Bank of F in l and contracts w i th residents only; the banks had to conclude contracts directly w i th their customers and then cou ld cover their total net position at the Bank of F in l and. However, although the Bank of F in l and d id not cover contracts w i th nonresidents, such contracts could be used to cover forward contracts with residents, in wh ich case the former had to be included in the calculation of the total net position of the banks. December 20. A central rate of Fmk 4.10000 = US$1 was established. F in l and would avail itself of wider margins. December 20. The Central Bank ceased to quote fixed buying and selling rates for clearing dollars. Henceforth, the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were applied also to clearing dollars. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc. There are two exchange markets, the official market, where exchange rates are based on par values and central rates, and the financial franc market, in wh ich rates are determined by supply and demand, free from official intervention. In the official market the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is F 5.11570 = US $ 1. In the financial franc market the rate for the U. S. dollar was about F 5.210 = US$1 on December 31, 1971. Ma rket rates for spot exchange transactions in U. S. dollars in the official market are maintained between official limits of F 5.0005 buying, and F 5.2310 selling, per US $ 1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other curren­ cies fluctuate between limits which result from combin­ ing the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.1 The dual exchange market regulations are not applic­ able to the Operations Account countries.2 F ixed con­ version rates in terms of French francs apply to the currencies of the following countries and territories: Algeria, Mo rocco, Tun is ia, the Operations Account countries, the F rench Overseas Departments, the French Overseas Territories (except the Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), and the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides. These conversion rates have been maintained at pre-August 15, 1971 levels. Except in the cases of Algeria, Mo rocco, and Tun is ia (to a ll of which the dual market regulations are applicable) these conversion rates are applied irrespective of the nature of payments or receipts. The transactions with foreign countries or nonresi­ dents that are eligible for the official market are essen­ tially limited to (a) import and export transactions; (b) current invisibles directly linked to import or export transactions and paid or received by the importer or exporter (mainly freight and insurance on imports and exports, customs and warehousing charges, and various harbor charges); (c) current payments made by the French State and French public bodies to nonresidents or made by any resident in favor of foreign states and foreign public bodies; and (d) current payments received by the French State or French public bodies from nonresidents or received by any resident from foreign states and foreign public bodies. A ll other transactions (including all merchanting transactions and a ll trans­ actions between residents and nonresidents in domestic or foreign banknotes or between residents in foreign banknotes) must take place in the financial franc market. Au thor ized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the official exchange market and the financial franc market in France. There is no official intervention in the forward markets. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspond­ ents in foreign markets in a ll currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports, but their forward sales of foreign currency are free, whether these represent export pro­ ceeds or other receipts. On the import side, forward cover is, in principle, available for some commodities for 6 or 12 months, and for a ll others for 3 months; at the end of 1971, however, such cover was normally limited to 3 months.8 On the export side, an underly­ ing contract is required and cover is limited to the month after the date on which the proceeds are co l­ lected. France formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in a ll territories of the French, Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Cors ica, the Overseas Departments (Guade­ loupe, Martinique, Gu iana, and Reunion), and five of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and M ique lon, New Caledonia, Wa l l is and Futuna Islands, and French Po lynes ia). No exchange control is applied in relation to the Principality of Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2); pay­ ments between France and these countries are free of restriction and take place at fixed exchange rates. For imports and exports of gold, however, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign coun­ tries.4 A ll other countries are considered foreign coun- * With effect from April 24, 1972, the Bank of France narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currencies of the other member countries of the E EC. 1 The currencies that are officially quoted are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (official market), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Nether­ lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and zaires. The quota­ tion for the Portuguese escudo has been suspended since October 22, 1966. 2 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 3 This limitation to the maximum payment periods for imports imposed on August 20, 1971 was eliminated on February 10, 1972. 4 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the con­ cept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from January 31, 1967. In the context of countries' overall relations with France, however, the con­ cept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); (2) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon) and Chad; (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); and (4) two other countries (Malagasy Republic and Mali). This definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F R A N CE tries for exchange control purposes; a ll payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control and take place at exchange rates resulting from the dual market regulations. The Condo­ m in ium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member coun­ tries of the E E C. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) A lge r ia, Gu inea, the Khmer Republic, Laos, Mo rocco, Tun is ia, No r th V i e t -N am, the Republic of V i e t -N am, and the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides .5 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of a ll matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless these matters relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications and notifications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique ( C C C E ). The Directorate of Insurance of the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, rein­ surance, annuities, etc. The material execution of a ll transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Rela­ tions; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, is responsible for any legal problems arising from the exchange regulations, and in particular handles any litigation relating thereto. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The M in is t ry of Indus- 5 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of January 30, 1967 of the Directorate-General of Customs and Indi­ rect Taxes (as amended on February 6, and May 31, 1967). 154 tr ial and Scientific Development has certain responsibili­ ties in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relat­ ing to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury .6 Settlements with a ll other countries may be made in any of the curren­ cies of those countries, or, depending on the nature of the transaction (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency; import payments in foreign currency must be made in the currency of the contract. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, inc lud­ ing French nationals (other than F rench officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. A ll overdrafts on nonresident-held franc accounts are sub­ ject to general or specific permission; the lending of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years is covered by a general permission. Nonresident accounts are mainly of two kinds: Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; these are related to the official exchange market and the financial franc market, respectively. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies (but not in banknote form) on the official exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market, provided that the regu­ lations of the country concerned allow the transactions; (3) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; and (4) any authorized payment by a resident to a non­ resident that is eligible for the official market. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction; (2) trans­ fers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (3) any pay­ ment to a resident when the regulations permit the sale of the foreign currency in the official market; and (4) purchases of any foreign currency on the official exchange market by a nonresident. Financial Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of foreign currency sold c In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries, these are the Institute of Issue of the French Overseas Departments (for Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion); the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Poly­ nesia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands); the Caisse Centrale de Coope­ ration Economique (for St. Pierre and Miquelon); and the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores (for the Comoro Islands). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution spot or forward in the financial franc market by a nonresident; (2) the franc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes (not those of the Operations Account countries) to an authorized bank by a nonresident; (3) transfers from other F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; (4) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct invest­ ments 7 or real estate; (5) F rench banknotes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (6) any pay­ ment made by a resident to a nonresident when the regulations permit access to the financial franc market; (7) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbi­ trage in foreign currency on a foreign market, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction; and (8) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization from F rench and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France. F inanc ial Accounts in Francs may be freely debited for (1) francs purchased against foreign currency by an authorized bank in an arbitrage transaction with a foreign market; (2) approved direct investment;7 (3) purchases in France of French or foreign securities; (4) purchases of real estate from residents; (5) trans­ fers to other F inanc ial Accounts in Francs; (6) any payment in favor of a resident when the sale of foreign currency is eligible for the financial franc market; (7) purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currency, including foreign banknotes, on the financial franc market; (8) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents. Direct transfers between Foreign Accounts and Financial Accounts are prohibited. Transfers between the two types of accounts may, however, be effected by conversion through spot exchange transactions in the two exchange markets concerned (arbitrage sur les marches des changes). If French francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in francs in the name of the beneficiary. The unremittable funds of emigrants of French nationality, however, must be retained in resident accounts; emigrants of foreign nationality may take out a ll of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other parts of the F rench Frano A rea or from certain other coun­ tries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Con trol Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quanti­ tative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not 7 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 67-78 of January 27, 1967, as amended on March 21, 1969, and of Decree No. 71-143 of February 22, 1971. F R A N CE covered by French import liberalization require ind iv id­ ual licenses. Some imports from E EC countries and some other imports from n o n -EEC countries are sub­ ject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. F or import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc A r ea are divided into four groups accord­ ing to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former O E EC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Ando r ra, Canada, F i n­ land, the Un i ted States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified countries;8 (3) the Eastern European countries (A lba­ nia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruma­ nia, and the U. S. S.R.) and mainland Ch ina; and (4) Eastern Germany. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of countries include a ll the commodities that may be freely imported from the next group of countries plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberal­ ization. Imports of practically a ll industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric­ tions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different countries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Hong K o ng and Macao. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated semiannually and apply to a ll countries other than those having the benefit of bilaterally negotiated quotas or of privileged treatment. Imports from a ll countries of certain agri­ cultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from n o n -EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced a ll previous barriers to imports; common E EC regulations are also applied to imports from n o n -EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod­ ucts. Certain agricultural imports are subject to special levies (montants compensatoires). Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes 8 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guate­ mala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Para­ guay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Im p o rt p a ym e n ts are m a de t h r o u gh the o f f i c i al m a r­ ke t, bu t, if no p r e c i se b r e a k d o wn of the v a l ue of the goods a nd the se rv ices c an be p r o v i d ed f or a c om b i n ed im p o rt t r a n s a c t i on in w h i ch se rv ices a c c o u nt f or 25 p er cent or m o re of the c o n t r a ct p r i c e, th en the en t i re am o u nt of the c o n t r a ct m u st be se t t led in the financial m a r k e t; m i x ed t r an s a c t ions in w h i ch se rv ices are less t h an 25 p er cent m ay be se t t led e n t i r e ly in the o f f i c i al m a r k e t. T h r ee m o n t h s' f o r w a rd c o v er f or im p o rt p a ym e n ts c an be o b t a i n ed f or any c omm o d i t y; f or the im p o rt of spec i f ied r aw m a t e r i a ls a nd spec i f ied foodstuffs (un roa s ted coffee, c o r n, r i c e, etc.) f o r w a rd c o v er f or s ix m o n t hs or one y e ar is a v a i l a b l e. T he f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy m ay be p u r c h a s ed f o r w a rd at the t ime of d o m i c i l i a t i o n. Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts f or c u r r e nt i n v i s i b l es to f o r e i gn coun t r i es are c o n t r o l l ed but not r e s t r i c t ed as to am o u n t. Se t t le­ m ent mu st take p l a ce t h r o u gh the f i n a n c i al f r anc m a r­ ke t, w i th in p r i n c i p le o n ly the f o l l o w i ng ex c ep t ion s: i n c i d e n t al expenses on d i r e ct im p o r ts a nd expo r ts ( i n c l u d i ng t r an spo r t, i n s u r a n c e, cu s tom s, w a r e h o u s i n g, a nd h a r b or cha rges) w h en s h own on the i n v o i ce a nd p a id or r e c e i v ed by the im p o r t er or e x p o r t er h im s e l f; p aym en ts f or p r o c e s s i ng of goods; c u r r e nt p a ym e n ts m a de by the F r e n ch State a nd F r e n ch p u b l ic bod ies (collectivites F R A N CE the cu s toms d e c l a r a t i on b e i ng r e q u i r e d; h ow e v e r, as an ex ch ange c o n t r ol mea su re, the d o m i c i l i a t i on of the im p o rt t r a n s a c t i on at an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk m ay be p r e­ s c r i b e d. F or some l i b e r a l i z ed im p o r t s, an a dm i n i s t r a t i ve v i sa i s sued by the c e n t r al cu s toms a dm i n i s t r a t i on or by the comp e t ent t e c h n i c al m i n i s t ry is r e q u i r ed on an im p o rt d e c l a r a t i o n. Im p o r ts of the p r o d u c ts of the E u r o­ p e an C o al a nd S teel C o m m u n i ty r e q u i re l icenses w h en o r i g i n a t i ng in n o n - E C SC c o u n t r i e s. O t h er im p o r ts g e n e r a l ly r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al im p o rt l icen se s. T h e se are g r a n t ed up to quo tas d e t e rm i n ed on an i n d i v i d u al c o m m o d i ty basis or f or a g r o up of c o m­ m o d i t i es a nd a p p l i c a b le to spec i f ied c o u n t r i es or areas in a c c o r d a n ce w i th t r ade ag reemen ts or an im p o rt p l an d r a wn up f or a de f in i te p e r i o d. M o r e o v e r, l icenses m ay be i s sued u n d er the c om p e n s a t i on t r a n s a c t i on p r o c e­ du r e, w h i ch app l ies m a i n ly to goods of E a s t e rn E u r o­ p e an o r i g i n. B e c a u se of the h i gh degree of im p o rt l i b e r a l i z a t i o n, im p o r ts u n d er th is scheme are of s l ight im p o r t a n c e. P a ym e n ts f or im p o r ts f r om f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es mu st be m a de by c r ed it to a F o r e i gn A c c o u nt in F r a n cs or w i th f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy p u r c h a s ed in the o f f ic ial exchange m a r k e t; im p o r ts v a l u ed at less t h an F 10 ,000 m ay a lso be p a id f or t h r o u gh p o s t al ch ann e l s. Im p o rt t ran sac­ t ions r e l a t i ng to f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es a nd v a l u ed at F 10 ,000 or m o re mu st be d om i c i l ed (registered) w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a n k, to w h i ch the necessa ry im p o rt do cum en ts mu st be p re sen ted a nd t h r o u gh w h i ch a ll p aym en ts r e l a t ed to the im p o rt mu st be m a d e. A u t h o r i z ed b anks m ay w i t h o ut s p e c i al a u t h o r i z a t i on a l l ow adv an ce p aym en ts to be m ade that are p r o v i d ed f or in the c omm e r c i al c o n t r a c t, up to 30 p er cent of the p r i ce f or c a p i t al goods a nd up to 10 p er cent f or a ll o th er goods. H i g h er adv an ce p a ym e n ts r e q u i re p r i or a p p r o v al by the C u s t oms A d m i n i s t r a t i o n. F or a ll im p o r t s, im p o r t e rs m ay pu r ch a se spot f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy one m o n th be fo re the p a ym e nt f a l ls due (one m o n th be fo re s h i pm e nt if a d o c um e n t a ry c r e d it is opened ). T h e re is no r e s t r i c t i on on the use of s u p p l i e r s' c r e d i t. T he im p o rt p a ym e nt i t s e lf c an be m ade (1) if a d o c u­ m e n t a ry c r e d it has been o p e n e d, u p on r e c e ipt of a d v i ce f r om the b ank 's f o r e i gn co r r e spond ent b a nk that the s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts ( s h ow i ng d i r e ct s h i pm e nt e i ther to the F r e n ch cu s toms t e r r i t o ry or to a n e a r by p o r t, s u ch as A n t w e rp or R o t t e r d am) h ave been s u bm i t t ed to i t; (2) if a d ra ft a c c om p a n i ed by s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts (effet documentaire, remise documentaire) is p resen ted to the a u t h o r i z ed b a n k, w h en the b a nk has v e r i f i ed that the d o c um e n ts c o v er the goods c o n c e r n ed a nd that they h ave been s h i p p ed (to the cu s toms t e r r i t o ry or a n e i g h­ b o r i ng p o r t ); (3) f or im p o r ts of r aw m a t e r i a ls by im p o r t­ ers h o l d i ng a s p e c i al a u t h o r i z a t i on f r om the C u s t oms A d m i n i s t r a t i o n, as s o on as the im p o r t er presen ts the b i ll of l a d i ng to h is b a nk of d om i c i l i a t i o n; or (4) for a ll o th er im p o r t s, if the im p o r t er subm i ts the cu s toms dec­ l a r a t i on (unless he a l r e ady d id so w h en p u r c h a s i ng h is f o r e i gn c u r r e n c y ). tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer­ tain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 3,500 a person a trip (F 1,750 for children under ten), wh ich may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for busi­ ness travel is the equivalent of F 400 a person a day, subject to a maximum of F 8,000 a trip. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. A ny unutil­ ized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 100 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use of credit cards abroad is permitted up to one half of the amount of any travel allocation granted, but such use is set off against the allocation itself. A ll fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs in France. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 500 in French banknotes, or F 50 if they go abroad for less than 24 hours. These banknotes may be spent abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out F 500 in F rench banknotes and may reconvert in the financial franc market into foreign currency any French banknotes up to F 500 obtained by the conversion in the financial franc market of foreign means of pay­ ment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a F inanc ial Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 3,500 in foreign notes and coins when acquired in the financial franc market against a tourist travel allo­ cation, or, if they are leaving on a business trip, the equivalent of F 3,500 in foreign banknotes or in checks. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 500 in foreign banknotes unless they were declared upon entry and the annotated declaration form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may also freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency trav­ elers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the financial franc market, by debit to a F inanc ial Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only F R A N CE be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be per­ mitted without any formality, subject to certain excep­ tions. Regardless of their value, exports through com­ pensation transactions with certain countries 9 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the official exchange market; however, export proceeds received and sold before the due date set in the commercial con­ tract must be sold in the financial franc market. The repatriation 10 and, where appropriate, the surrender in the official market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries is required, normally within one month of the date on which the payment falls due. Au thor ized banks may extend foreign currency advances to exporters, but these are considered as advance repatriation and must therefore be sold in the financial franc market. The proceeds from the discounting of foreign currency drafts presented by exporters also are treated as advance export receipts and must be sold in the financial franc market. Combined export transactions in which services account for 25 per cent or more of the contract price must be settled entirely in the financial franc market unless a precise breakdown of the price of goods and services is provided. Combined transactions with less than 25 per cent services are settled entirely in the official exchange market. The due date of the commer­ c ial contract cannot, except with special authorization, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds must not be received in F rench or foreign banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal check­ ing account in France. A ll export transactions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, how­ ever, may exempt certain approved firms from domi­ c i l ia t ion. Cer ta in goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Sales to foreign tourists normally are settled through the financial franc market, although the regulations provide for the possibility of using the official exchange market if certain special customs requirements are fulfilled. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a specified percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import 9 Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, U. S. S. R., Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American countries. 10 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign cur­ rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F R A N CE licenses for any commodity still subject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corre­ sponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in foreign currencies received in the previous year. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. Settlement must take place in the financial franc market, with the following exceptions: receipts from incidental expenses on imported and exported goods, when received by the exporter or importer h im­ self and shown on the invoice; receipts from processing of goods; current payments received from nonresidents by the French State or French public bodies (collecti­ ves publiques); and current payments to a resident made by foreign states and public bodies (collectivites publiques). W i th minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, C FA francs, Malagasy francs, C FP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by A lge r ia, Mo rocco, and Tun is ia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must within a month of entry sell in the finan­ cial franc market any foreign banknotes in excess of F 100 that they bring in. Capital Cap i tal movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and a ll other countries are subject to exchange control approval. Most inward and outward capital transfers between France and foreign countries (between residents and nonresidents) must be effected through the financial franc market. W i th the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capi­ tal receipts from foreign countries generally are per­ mitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange pro­ ceeds are surrendered by sale in the appropriate exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct invest­ ment). Cap i tal assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use. The trans­ fer abroad of nonresident-owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. F rench and foreign securities held in France by non­ 158 residents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); F rench and foreign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be trans­ ferred abroad. Fore ign securities held in France by residents must be deposited w i th a qualified bank or broker. Fore ign securities held in France by a nonresi­ dent must be deposited with an authorized bank; F rench securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Residents may ho ld French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a F rench authorized bank or broker. The exportation for the account of residents of F rench securities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance w i th the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks and provided that settlement takes place in the financial franc market. Such F rench and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or sold on a F rench stock exchange. The pro­ ceeds of the sale abroad of F rench or foreign securities must be sold on the financial franc market w i th in two months of receipt, unless used w i th in that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, non­ residents holding F rench or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the finan­ c ial franc market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control requirements. The transaction controls do not apply to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Furthermore, the transac­ tion controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the E E C, direct investment transactions with which are subject to exchange con­ trol approval only. Fore ign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require pr ior declaration to the M in is ter of Economy and Finance; in relations w i th member countries of the E E C, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations that might involve a capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution movement. D irect investments are defined as invest­ ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest­ ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. Except in respect of E EC coun­ tries, the M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. Unless the amount involved is less than F 1 m i l l ion, documentary evidence must be submitted to the D i rec­ torate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be trans­ ferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days after it takes place. U n t il recently, F rench direct investment abroad in many cases had to be partially financed abroad, and foreign direct investment in France generally was required to be financed in part with an inflow of for­ eign exchange. Both financing requirements were eased considerably in 1971, and for outward investment they were terminated in September 1971. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub­ ject to pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authoriza­ tion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the F rench Gove rn­ ment, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. The follow­ ing types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, which are subject to pr ior declaration, as ind i­ cated above, and whose postponement may be requested by the M in is ter up to two months after receipt of the declaration; (2) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (3) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (4) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to bor­ row abroad (these include a ll authorized banks); and (6) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "no rma l" market rate, that the borrow­ ing is not for the purpose of direct investment, and that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered. However, since July 24, 1970 borrowing in francs has been subject to closer scrutiny to prevent excessive interest rates in the Euro-franc market, and the exemp­ tions under ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and (6) have been limited to borrowing in foreign currency. When the countervalue F R A N CE in francs is made available to the borrower, repayment must be scheduled to take place after at least one year. Since the date mentioned, borrowing in francs by non- bank residents from nonresidents has in effect been pro­ hibited. Du r ing the last quarter of 1971, furthermore, banks and industrial companies were not normally allowed to borrow abroad to finance direct investment in France or abroad. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France inso­ far as they relate to F rench firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lend ing abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France and is restricted. Au thor ized banks have since the imposition of exchange control in 1968 been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and varying limitations on their external position. Lend ing to non­ residents in francs, however, was un t il late in 1971 heavily restricted; at the end of 1971, franc loans to nonresidents for up to two years were freely permitted, for any purpose, and the Bank of France approved liberally applications for loans of over two years. At the end of 1971, authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign cur­ rency to nonresidents were free from limitation. Au tho r­ ized banks may freely sell foreign exchange on the offi­ c ial exchange market, spot or forward, for the account of nonresidents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts, through the financial franc market. Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there pr ior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to wh ich residents have free and anonymous access and in which no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of gold into or from the territory of continental France require pr ior authorization by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for monetary gold but usually is given for industrial gold. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing only a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports of gold objects (other than medals, coins, and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The import and export of certain gold 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 23. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries was increased from the equivalent of F 1,500 to F 2,000 a person a trip (from F 750 to F 1,000 for children under ten); as previously, this allocation was available for two separate trips in a calendar year. April L. A deposit requirement was imposed on the franc balances of authorized banks' foreign correspond­ ents, agencies, and branches; the rate of deposit was the same as that for residents' deposits. April 10. The facilities of M a r ch 13, 1969 allowing resident commodity brokers to deal forward in com­ modities on commodity markets in France were expanded. Brokers, who previously were only permitted to borrow the necessary foreign currency from authorized banks in France, were now permitted also to borrow foreign exchange abroad. Furthermore, brokers were permitted to engage in dealings on commodity markets abroad, provided that these were the counterpart of transactions in the same commodity on French markets and that their value did not exceed the brokers' overall position in the same commodity on F rench markets. April 27. The use abroad of credit cards ceased to be prohibited; it became permitted for up to 50 per cent of the allocations for tourist and business travel but was charged against the allocations. May 18. The Na t ional Credit Coun c il authorized the Bank of France to increase reserve requirements against nonresidents' deposits with F rench banks beyond the previous 15 per cent upper l im i t, up to 100 per cent, and to forbid or restrict the remuneration of such deposits. May 21. The franc accounts of foreign banks and other nonresidents, which for purposes of reserve requirements previously were classified in the time deposit category, were reclassified and treated as sight deposits. Thus, the reserve requirement against these deposits went up from 3V* per cent to F R A N CE objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, is subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangements and to licensing by the Bank of France. Imports and exports of industrial gold are settled in the official exchange market. In domestic trading, purchases of monetary gold (bars and coins) are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs duty and value-added tax. Changes during 1971 January 1. The financing facilities for commercial and industrial direct investment abroad were improved. The amount up to which an industrial firm could with­ out individual exchange control authorization make transfers for an approved project was raised from F 2.5 m i l l ion to F 5 m i l l ion a year. Alternatively, indus­ tr ial firms that in 1970 had repatriated over F 5 m i l l ion in profits and royalties from their foreign branches and subsidiaries could dispose of the fu ll amount so repatriated for purposes of financing their foreign branches and subsidiaries. January 13. Investment guarantees were made avail­ able for new private direct investments in French- speaking A f r ican countries and the Malagasy Republic, i.e., in i t ia l ly in the Operations Account countries. The facility was applicable also to certain expansion of existing investments but not to petroleum or agricul­ tural investment nor to real estate operations or financial operations. The guarantees would be issued by the C C CE and covered by a counter-guarantee of the Treasury. They covered the political risk and that of nontransfer of liquidation proceeds (not that of non- transfer of profits), each for 75-90 per cent. January 25. Foreign Accounts in Francs could again be credited with banknotes issued by the B C E A O, the B C E A E C, the Malagasy Institute of Issue, or the Central Bank of M a l i, provided that they were mailed to the main office of the Bank of France by foreign corre­ spondents of French authorized banks. Such credits had been prohibited since November 1968. February 22. Member countries of the E EC were exempted from the special transaction controls over inward and outward direct investment, but such invest­ ments between France and other E EC countries hence­ forth required prior declaration or prior approval under the exchange control regulations; prior authorization was required for all operations that might involve a capital movement. Decrees Nos. 71-143 and 71-144 of Febru­ ary 22 modified accordingly Decree N o. 67-78 of Janu­ ary 27, 1967 and Decree N o. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968. Two implementing Orders were also issued. March 18. The amount below which import trans­ actions relating to foreign countries did not require domiciliation with an authorized bank was increased from F 2,500 to F 10,000. The corresponding amount for export transactions was increased from F 5,000 to F 10,000 on M a r ch 17. from F 5,000 to F 10,000, that for family remittances from F 400 to F 1,000 a month for each remittor, that for dowries from F 5,000 to F 10,000, and that for maintenance of jointly owned buildings from F 2,000 to F 4,000 for each owner a year. The standard allocations for student expenses abroad and participation in meet­ ings and conventions abroad were doubled. August 3. The assets of residents of French nationality taking up residence abroad were declared transferable after two years' residence abroad. Previously, only an exchange allocation upon departure was granted. (Res i­ dents of foreign nationality had since November 1968 been free to transfer their assets upon departure.) August 3. Fo rwa rd cover was made available for additional import commodities, and for longer periods. The standard period was increased from one month to three months, and selected commodities could receive six or nine months' cover. August 3. Importers were allowed to purchase spot foreign exchange one month instead of one week before the due date of the import payment ( in case of a documentary credit, one month instead of one week before shipment). Advance payments for imports from foreign countries, which previously required individual approval, could now be made freely, but in accordance with the terms of the purchase contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for other commodities; previously, individual approvals had been granted on the same basis. The exchange for such advance payments also could be purchased one month before the due date. August 3. It was announced that foreign exchange would be granted more liberally for the financing of French direct investment abroad and for advance repayment of loans previously taken up abroad, although the approval requirements would be maintained. Further details were announced on September 2. August 3. To prevent any further increase in banks' net external liabilities the Bank of France issued C i rcu lar N o. 4 P. B. instructing authorized banks to prevent in future (on a day-to-day basis) any deterioration from the August 3 level in their "overall net position in foreign currencies and francs in respect of foreign countries." Foreign countries for this purpose included the Operations Account countries. There was no obligation imposed, however, to refuse any specific credits to nonresident accounts. The circular only informed banks that these measures "could lead them to refuse sales of foreign currency from abroad that were motivated by speculative reasons." August 5. The reserve requirement against non­ residents' franc accounts was increased from 10% per cent to 12% per cent. August 6. The M in is ter of Economy and Finance requested his colleagues of the Operations Account countries to adopt measures similar to those provided for by C i rcu lar N o. 4 P. B. August 6. Under a "gentlemen's agreement" with the F R A N CE Bank of France the commercial banks announced that they would no longer pay interest on term deposits in francs held by nonresidents where the deposits were for periods of less than 90 days (previously, only sight deposits did not bear interest). The provision was made mandatory on August 17 by a decision of the Na t ional Credit Coun c i l; exempt from the prohibition were deposits held by residents of Operations Account coun­ tries and, until their expiration, existing interest rate agreements between banks and their customers. W i th effect from August 20, the exemptions were extended to the deposits as of August 17 of foreign central banks and of certain international organizations. August 6. Banks were freely permitted to lend francs to nonresident correspondent banks in swap transactions against foreign currencies (when the transactions served to finance forward sales of foreign currency by their customers or other foreign correspondents); such lend­ ing had been prohibited since December 6, 1968. August 16. The official exchange market and the gold market were closed. The latter reopened on August 18 and the official exchange market on August 23. August 21...11 A dual exchange market was created comprising an official market based on parity and accommodating only import and export transactions, trade-related current invisibles, and current official transactions and a financial franc market which would fluctuate in response to supply and demand and would accommodate a ll other transactions, with the exception of those that continued to be channeled through the security currency market. The existing exchange restrictions and surrender requirements were maintained. In the official market, the Bank of France maintained its official buying and selling limits for the U. S. dollar at F 5.5125 and F 5.5960. August 21. The system of nonresident franc accounts was reorganized. The name of Foreign Accounts in Francs was retained, but henceforth these were related to the official market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. Transfers between these two types of account were p roh ib i ted ;12 either type could freely be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency sold by a nonresident in the appropriate exchange mar­ ket, and could freely be debited for the purchase of foreign currency by a nonresident in the appropriate exchange market. Foreign and F inanc ial Accounts could freely be used for settlements between residents and nonresidents that were authorized under the exchange control regulations, provided that the payment was eligible for the exchange market to which the account was related. Existing nonresident franc accounts 11 The regulations introducing the dual market were issued on August 20 to enter into force on the date of publication in the Journal Officiel, which was August 21. The official and financial exchange markets were not opened, however, until August 23. 12 Only indirect transfers were possible, by converting one kind of franc into foreign exchange and using the latter to purchase the other type of franc (arbitrage sur les marches des changes). 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F R A N CE were redesignated Foreign Accounts in Francs, although subsequently (see August 30, September 2, November 8, and November 19, below) certain balances were treated as F inanc ial Accounts. August 21. French banknotes presented to the Bank of France by foreign banks henceforth were credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. August 21. Henceforth any foreign exchange received as advance payments for exports had to be sold in the financial franc market if sold before the due date of the contract. Exporters receiving advance payment could, however, retain the foreign exchange un t il one month after the due date and then sell it in the official exchange market. The November 24, 1968 directive remained in force which required repatriation and sale of export proceeds within a month after the due date set in the contract. August 21. Au thor ized banks' positions on F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were included in their overall net external position as defined in Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 4 P. B. August 21. The amount below which imports from foreign countries were exempt from domiciliation was lowered from F 10,000 to F 5,000. Import payments for goods valued at F 5,000 or more henceforth had to be made not later than three months after customs clearance (two years for capital goods, but the Customs Administration could allow longer periods for heavy machinery). Goods imported two months or more previously and not paid for had to be settled in fu ll before September 21. August 24. Transfers of salaries and allowances to French officials posted abroad had to be effected through the financial franc market. August 25. It was confirmed that only F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could be debited for withdrawals by nonresidents of French or foreign banknotes. As an exception, however, foreign officials posted in France cou ld debit their Foreign Accounts in Francs (up to the amount of their salaries and allowances) for w i th­ drawals of French banknotes and for any payment to a resident. August 30. Foreign workers in France who had been in the country for less than two years (and hence were nonresidents) were permitted to transfer direct to a F inanc ial Account in Francs up to F 5,000 of their August 21 balance on a Foreign Account in Francs. August 31. It was clarified that incidental expenses on imports and exports were to be settled in the official exchange market only when directly connected with a specified transaction and shown on the invoice for the merchandise. August 31. It was clarified that processing of goods temporarily imported or exported and remaining the property of a nonresident or a resident, respectively, qualified for the official exchange market. The rental of temporarily imported or exported machinery also quali­ fied for the official market. 162 August 31. A clarification was issued to the effect that a ll merchanting trade (whether the goods passed through F rench territory or not), and a ll transactions on commodity markets had to be settled in the financial franc market when a foreign country or a nonresident was involved. August 31. F or purposes of the regulations ru l ing import payments, a definition of capital goods was published. It was modified on September 15 and October 15. August 31. Import payments in foreign currency had to be made in the currency of the commercial contract. Since the foreign currency had to be purchased in the official exchange market on the due date(s) set in the contract, banks were henceforth prohibited from grant­ ing advances in foreign currency to importers. Exporters receiving payment in a foreign currency other than the one invoiced in the commercial contract were free to decide whether to accept settlement in such form. August 31. The foreign currency proceeds of sales to foreign tourists had to be sold in the financial franc market. September 2. Nonresidents' balances as of August 21 in savings accounts and similar accounts were treated as balances in F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 2. The authority delegated to branches of the Bank of France to allocate exchange for business travel was increased from F 10,000 to F 12,000 a person a trip. In addition, these branches were empowered to grant supplementary allocations for representation expenses. September 2. Banks were informed that foreign cur­ rency loans to importers were prohibited and that when they extended foreign currency loans to resident export­ ers, the foreign currency had to be sold in the financial franc market. Banks were also informed that forward sales of foreign currency by their customers had to be effected in the exchange market for which the under­ ly ing transaction was eligible. September 2. The financing requirements for inward and outward direct investment were eased. (1) French companies making such investments abroad could henceforth transfer abroad a ll funds necessary for approved projects, while previously they normally had to borrow from nonresidents any amounts in excess of F 5 m i l l ion a year (F 2.5 m i l l ion for each foreign branch for commercial investments). (2) The foreign financing requirement for nonresidents making direct investments in branches and subsidiaries in France would be relaxed for transactions deemed useful for the expansion of the economy; previously, the require­ ment was that foreign funds should constitute, on the average, in relation to the total financing of each branch or subsidiary, a percentage equal to at least one half of that of the foreign participation in the enterprise. (3) App l ica t ions for advance repayment of loans pre­ viously taken up abroad would be approved very liber­ ally, but the normal requirements for borrowing abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (m a t u r i ty of at least one y e a r, p r o h i b i t i on of a d v a n ce r ep aym ent c lauses, etc.) w e re m a i n t a i n e d. September 15. T he p roceeds f r om the d i s c o u n t i ng of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy draf ts p re sen ted by expo r te rs w e re t rea ted as advance expo rt p a ym e n ts a nd h ad to be s o ld in the f i n a n c i al f ranc m a r k e t. September 15. S i n ce the r e g u l a t i on p r e s c r i b i ng p a y­ m ent by S ep t emb er 21 f or im p o r ts that h ad c l e a r ed cu s toms two mon ths or m o re p r i or to A u g u st 21 th rea tened to cause h a r d s h i p, it was a n n o u n c ed that c e r t a in f a c i l i t i es c o u ld be g r an t ed to im p o r t e rs w ho h ad accep ted d ra f t s. If draf ts w e re exp ressed in f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n c y, im p o r t e rs c o u ld p u r c h a se the am o u nt of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy r e q u i r e d, e i th er spot or f o r w a r d, a nd depo s it it w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk u n t il the f o r e i gn p a ym e nt f e ll d u e. If draf ts we re in f ranc s, im p o r t e rs c o u ld depo s it f rancs u n t il the f o r e i gn p a ym e nt f e ll due. September 15. A u t h o r i z ed b anks we re i n f o rm ed that th e ir o v e r a ll net e x t e r n al p o s i t i on ( C i r c u l ar N o. 4 P . B .) mu st be im p r o v ed by the am o u nt of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy they m i g ht c ome to h o ld f or the a c c o u nt of re s ident cu s tome rs r e c e i v i ng a w a i v er f r om the o b l i g a t i on to settle " o l d" im p o r ts be fo re S ep t emb er 21 ( a nd thus h a v i ng to pu r ch a se f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy e i th er spot or f o r­ w a r d) or m i g ht a c q u i re to c o v er the f o rw a rd pu rcha ses of s u ch cu s tom e r s. September 24. T he c a l c u l a t i on of the b a n k s' o v e r a ll net e x t e r n al p o s i t i on ( C i r c u l ar N o. 4 P . B .) was r e v i s ed to e x c l u de c l a ims a nd l i a b i l i t i es in respect of O p e r a­ t ions A c c o u nt c o u n t r i e s. September 24. A u t h o r i z ed b a n ks w i s h i ng to inc rea se t h e ir position de change ( i . e ., any excess of t h e ir b a l­ ances or c l a ims in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy o v er t h e ir f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy l i a b i l i t i e s) c o u ld request the p e rm i s s i on of the B a nk of F r a n ce to do so. P e rm i s s i on f or s u ch pu rcha ses was g r a n t ed l i b e r a l l y. Pu r ch a s es a nd a ny subsequent sales h ad to be effected in the f i n a n c i al f r anc m a r k e t. T i t le I of B a nk of F r a n ce C i r c u l ar N o. 1 P . B. of D e c em b er 3, 1968 was r e s c i n d e d, w h i ch h ad p r o h i b i t ed b a n ks f r om m a i n t a i n i ng a p o s i t i ve net position de change in excess of that of S ep t emb er 3, 1968. September 30. U n t il fu r th er n o t i c e, b anks a nd i n d u s­ t r i al c om p a n i es w e re n ot n o r m a l ly a l l ow ed to b o r r ow a b r o ad to f inance inv e s tm ent in F r a n ce or a b r o a d. October 11. T he t ran s fe rab le assets of res iden ts a c q u i r i ng non r e s id ent status h ad to be c r e d i t ed d i r e ct ( i .e ., w i t h o ut p r i or c o n v e r s i on in the ex ch ange m a r k e t) to F i n a n c i al A c c o u n ts in F r a n c s. F i n a n c i al A c c o u nt ba lances h e ld by non re s iden ts a c q u i r i ng re s ident status h ad to be c r e d i t ed d i r e ct to a re s ident a c c o u n t; F o r e i gn A c c o u nt ba lances h e ld by s u ch pe r son s, h ow e v e r, c o u ld be c r e d i t ed to re s ident a c coun ts o n ly after c o n­ v e r s i on in the o f f ic ial ex ch ange m a r k et ( w i th the ex c ep­ t i on that u n u s ed ba lances as of A u g u st 2 1, 1971 c o u ld be c r e d i t ed to a re s ident a c c o u nt w i t h o ut s u ch c o n­ v e r s i o n) . October 15. It w as c l a r i f i ed that i n c i d e n t al expenses on im p o r ts a nd expo r ts w e re e l i g i b le f or the o f f ic ial F R A N CE ex ch ange m a r k et o n ly if p a id to or by the im p o r t er or e x p o r t er h im s e lf ( or the p e r s on or f i rm a u t h o r i z ed to act f or h im as mandataire). October 15. C o m b i n ed im p o rt or e x p o rt t r an s a c t ions in w h i ch se rv ices a c c o u n t ed f or less t h an 25 p er cent of the c o n t r a ct am o u nt we re se t t led e n t i r e ly in the o f f i c i al m a r k e t. U n l e ss an exact b r e a k d own of the v a l ue of the c omm o d i t i es a nd the se rv ices c o u ld be p r o v i d e d, c om b i n ed im p o rt or e x p o rt t ran sac t ions in w h i ch ser­ v i c es a c c o u n t ed f or 25 p er cent or m o re of the c o n t r a ct am o u nt h ad to be se t t led e n t i r e ly in the f i n a n c i al f r anc m a r k e t. T h e se p r o v i s i o ns w e re a l so a p p l i ed to e x i s t i ng con t r a c t s. October 19. T he M i n i s t er of E c o n o my a nd F i n a n ce a n n o u n c ed that the i n t r o d u c t i on of exchange ra te gua r­ antees f or expo r te rs w as u n d er c o n s i d e r a t i o n. ( T h ey we re i n t r o d u c ed on J a n u a ry 3 1, 1972 .) October 20, T he s e c u r i ty c u r r e n cy m a r k et (devise- titre m a r k e t) was m e r g ed i n to the f i n a n c i al f r anc m a r­ ke t. R e s id en ts w e re f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed (sub jec t, w h e re a p p r o p r i a t e, to c om p l i a n ce w i th the s p e c i al r egu l a t ions c o n c e r n i ng i n w a rd a nd o u tw a rd d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n t) to pu r ch a se F r e n ch a nd f o r e i gn secu r i t ies on s to ck exchanges a b r o a d, t h r o u gh a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s, p r o v i d ed that se t t lement t o ok p l a ce in the f i n a n c i al f r anc m a r k e t. S u ch F r e n ch a nd f o r e i gn secu r i t ies c o u ld be h e ld or s o ld a b r o a d, b ut they c o u ld a l so be im p o r t ed a nd th en e i ther be h e ld or s o ld on a F r e n ch s to ck exchange. T h us res iden ts c o u ld s e ll on the F r e n ch m a r k et a ny F r e n ch or l i s t ed f o r e i gn secu r i t ies th ey p u r c h a s ed a b r o a d. T he p roceeds of the sa le a b r o ad of F r e n ch or f o r e i gn s e c u r i­ ties h ad to be s o ld on the f i n a n c i al f r a nc m a r k et w i t h in one m o n th of rece ip t, un less u sed w i t h in that p e r i od f or r e inv e s tm ent in secu r i t ies a b r o a d. October 25. It was a n n o u n c ed that f or the t ime b e i ng no E u r o - f r a nc b o nd issues w o u ld be a l l ow e d. November 8. N o n r e s i d e nt p h y s i c al pe rsons l i v i ng a b r o ad a nd h o l d i ng F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs o p e n ed be fo re A u g u st 2 1, 1971 we re p e rm i t t ed to use the b a l­ ance as of N o v e m b er 5, 1971 d i r e c t ly ( i . e ., w i t h o ut p r i or c o n v e r s i on in the ex ch ange m a r k e t s) f or a n u m­ ber of c u r r e nt p a ym e n ts in F r a n ce that o th e rw i se h ad to be se t t led t h r o u gh the f i n a n c i al f r a nc m a r k et ( i n c l u d­ i ng s c h o ol fees, f am i ly s u p p o rt up to F 1,000 a m o n th f or e a ch a c c o u n t, m e d i c al expenses, p e n s i on p r em i um s, house ren t, a nd m a i n t e n a n ce of b u i l d i n g s) a n d, subject to p r i or B a nk of F r a n ce a p p r o v a l, f or the p u r c h a se of p e r s o n al r e al estate (as t h e ir p r i n c i p al r e s id en c e) in F r a n c e. November 8. It was c l a r i f i ed that a ll c u r r e nt p a y­ men ts by non re s iden ts in f a v or of the F r e n ch S ta te or F r e n ch collectivites publiques, i n c l u d i n g, n o t a b l y, tax p aym en t s, h ad to be effected e i th er by the sa le of f o r­ e i gn c u r r e n cy in the o f f i c i al ex ch ange m a r k et or by d eb it to F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n c s. November 16. N o n r e s i d e n ts ( i n c l u d i ng those l i v i ng in F r a n c e) w e re f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed to im p o rt i n to F r a n ce a ny F r e n ch or f o r e i gn secu r i t ies t h ey h e ld a b r o a d, to 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F R A N CE hold the imported securities in a foreign dossier in France or to sell them on a French stock exchange, and to have the sales proceeds of any such French or for­ eign securities credited to a F inanc ial Account in Francs and transferred abroad through the financial franc market. Previously, the sales proceeds of nonresi­ dent-held foreign securities (unlike those of French securities) could not be transferred abroad, although the securities could be exported. As a result of the elimination of the formalities governing the sale in France of nonresident-held French securities, these measures caused the discounts abroad on F rench securi­ ties to disappear. November 19. Nonresident physical persons receiv­ ing on a Foreign Account in Francs scholarships, pen­ sions, and rentes (certain official pensions and official annuities) paid by the French State, foreign states, or French or foreign collectivites publiques could debit their Foreign Accoun t, up to the amount of the receipts mentioned, for any payment in favor of a resident or to withdraw francs in the form of French banknotes. December 3. The M in is t ry of Economy and Finance announced that a number of additional measures were being taken to ensure the proper functioning of the dual market by preventing nonresidents from running up speculative franc holdings. U n t il December 10 these measures would leave unchanged the permitted u t i l iza­ tion by nonresidents of the francs they held. F r om December 10, however, the use of any excess francs would be subject to new rules; from that date, non­ residents holding francs on Foreign Accounts or F inan­ c ial Accounts cou ld only use the balances for payments in francs to residents in accordance with the exchange control regulations, and no longer for conversion into foreign currency. At any time after December 14, any excess over the balance as of November 30, 1971 in either type of account could be directed to a blocked account. December 3. Lend ing of francs to nonresidents for periods up to two years was fully liberalized. The approval of the Bank of France remained required only for such loans w i th a maturity in excess of two years, and approvals were granted liberally. December 3. Fo rwa rd exchange cover for imports was made available for any commodity; the standard cover period was set at three months, but for commodi­ ties previously eligible the term was increased from three months to six months or from six or nine months to one year. December 3. The M in is ter of Economy and Finance issued a circular specifying the treatment to be accorded to nonresident franc accounts from Decem­ ber 10, 1971. F r om that date, Foreign Accounts in Francs could be debited only for payments to residents that must be effected through the official market, and F inanc ial Accounts only for payments in francs to residents that must be effected through the financial franc market. Consequently, from December 10 Fo r­ 164 eign and F inanc ial Accounts cou ld no longer be debited for purchases of foreign currency in either exchange market nor to acquire francs in exchange for foreign currency by arbitrage with a market abroad. Further­ more, with effect from December 4, F inanc ial Accounts could no longer be debited for purchases of F rench banknotes for mailing abroad, for purchases of any French short-term securities (including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts), or for payments on savings books. If nonresident franc accounts showed a balance in excess of that on November 30, 1971, the M in is ter of Economy and Finance could at any time, beginning December 14, direct the transfer of the excess to B locked Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts; the manner in which these accounts could be used, either in francs or by conversion into foreign currency, would be deter­ mined in due course. These provisions about B locked Accounts and conversion into foreign exchange would not be applicable to: (1) Fore ign Accounts held by foreign states and collectivites publiques; (2) Fore ign Accounts held by nonresident physical persons, but only for the balance as of August 21, 1971; and (3) F inan­ c ial Accounts held by nonresident physical persons, but only up to the amount of wages, salaries, and fees, social security payments, and pensions and rentes credited to the accounts. The circular also amended the circular of August 20, 1971 concerning nonresident franc accounts and for­ eign security dossiers to reflect the new provisions on lending of francs to nonresidents and to permit the corresponding interest and amortization payments, while specifying that such loans could not be granted to enable a nonresident to invest in short-term F rench securities. December 7. The M in is t ry of Economy and Finance announced that the December 3 measures d id not affect foreign portfolio investment in France or payments for imports of goods or services that were invoiced in francs. Francs accruing to nonresidents from the fo l­ lowing would remain transferable abroad: investment income, the proceeds of investments sold to residents, personal earnings, and payments for goods or services imported into France. December 8. Bank of France C i r cu l ar N o. 182 A . F. informed authorized banks that they were no longer allowed to borrow francs from nonresidents in swaps against foreign currencies. December 8. Bank of France C i r cu l ar N o. 183 A . F. allowed the continued convertibility into foreign cur­ rency after December 10 of francs held in Foreign Accounts by certain physical persons: (a) foreign offi­ cials serving in France, for the amounts of the salaries and allowances received from their governments; and (b) any nonresident physical person, for the amounts received from the French State, foreign states, and French or foreign collectivites publiques as scholarship funds, pensions, or rentes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 8. Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 184 A . F. created a new type of nonresident franc account, the Patrimonial Assets Accoun t. Balances in Patrimonial Assets Accounts would not be subject to any blocking measures that might be decided upon by virtue of the M in is ter ial C i r cu l ar of December 3. The accounts could not be credited w i th the counterpart of foreign cur­ rency sold in either exchange market, nor with francs from Fore ign or F inanc ial Accounts. Transfers between Patrimonial Assets Accounts were freely permitted and they could be debited freely for the purchase of any foreign currency in the financial franc market. As a result, the dual exchange market temporarily became a triple market. Credits to the new accounts were freely permitted for (a) the proceeds of the sale on a French stock exchange of listed French securities or of mutual fund shares, i.e., shares in a Societe dTnvestissement a C ap i­ tal Var iab le, or S I C A V, provided in all cases that on November 30, 1971 they were held in a foreign dossier or that they were after that date acquired by debit to a Patrimonial Assets Accoun t; (b) the proceeds of the sale of real estate acquired in accordance with ru l ing regula­ tions by nonresidents pr ior to November 30 or purchased subsequently by debit to a Patrimonial Assets Accoun t; (c) housing and agricultural rents from real estate and interest and dividends on French securities and S I C AV shares belonging to nonresidents; and (d) transfers from other Patrimonial Assets Accounts. Debits were freely permitted for (a) the purchase by a nonresident of any foreign currency in the finan­ c ial franc market; (b) the purchase of foreign bank­ notes from an authorized bank; (c) the amount of francs exchanged for foreign currency by an authorized bank in an arbitrage transaction w i th a foreign mar­ ket; (d) the acquisition of real estate from residents; (e) the acquisition in France of listed F rench securities and of S I C AV shares; (f) transfers to other Pa t r i­ monial Assets Accoun ts; and (g) any payment in favor of a resident when the regulations permitted the latter to sell foreign currency in the financial franc market. December 8. Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 185 A . F. clarified that, as an exception to the December 10 pro­ hibition on the conversion into foreign currency of nonresident-held francs, balances in Foreign Accounts could continue to be converted into balances in F inan­ cial Accounts, and vice versa, through spot transactions in the two exchange markets concerned, provided that the purchase and sale of foreign currency had the same value date. December 8. Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 186 A . F. provided that after December 10 authorized banks would remain free to transfer abroad, by purchasing foreign currency in the appropriate exchange market, amounts credited by order of residents to nonresident accounts, provided that: (a) the credit entries corre­ sponded to commercial or financial debts that were invoiced in francs, had fallen due, and were transfer­ F R A N CE able under the exchange control regulations; (b) the foreign currency was purchased in the official or finan­ c ial market, depending on the nature of the c la im; and (c) the purchase of foreign currency took place on the same day the nonresident account was credited. However, banks had to obtain from the nonresident beneficiaries a standing or specific order to convert the francs credited to their accounts into foreign currency. In the absence of such orders, the francs credited would be subject to the December 3 provisions (possi­ bility of blocking and prohibition of conversion); never­ theless, amounts credited to Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts that resulted from spot sales of foreign cur­ rency effected in order to pay residents on the same day for goods and services that were invoiced in francs and whose payment had fallen due would be exempt from any blocking measures. December 9. Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 187 A . F. concerning transactions in securities summarized the regulations applicable after the abolition of the devise- titre market and the liberalization measure of Novem­ ber 16. F or the first time a definition of securities was provided. The period within which the proceeds of securities sold abroad had to be either reinvested or sold in the financial franc market was set at two months (previously one mon th). The circular also confirmed that the sales proceeds of nonresident-owned foreign securities could be transferred abroad. December 10. Patrimonial Assets; Accounts were renamed Special Sections of F inanc ial F ranc Accounts. December 13. T i t le II of Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 1 P .B. of December 3, 1968 was canceled and the circular was withdrawn. T i t le II had provided that the overall amount of banks' claims in francs on nonresi­ dents could not exceed the level of November 24, 1968 and by the end of January 1969 had to be reduced to at most the level of September 3, 1968. December 20. The patrimonial franc was abolished. On December 21, balances in Special Sections of F inanc ial F ranc Accounts were redesignated as finan­ c ial franc balances. December 20. The M in is ter ial C i rcu lar of Decem­ ber 3, 1971 was revoked which had restricted the con­ version into foreign currency of franc balances in Fo r­ eign and F inanc ial Accounts, provided for a possible blocking of nonresidents' franc balances, and pro­ hibited the use of F inanc ial Franc Accounts for pur­ chases of French banknotes and French short-term securities. The blocking authority had never been invoked. The circular's general permission for the lend­ ing of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, and the prohibition on such lending for invest­ ment in short-term French securities were maintained. (W i th effect from January 3, 1972, lending of francs by residents to nonresidents to finance purchases of short-term French securities was again permitted.) December 20. The amount below which imports were free from the domiciliation requirement was 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F R A N CE restored from F 5,000 to F 10,000. The August 20 limitations on the use of suppliers' credit by importers were rescinded. December 20. It was announced that the Na t ional Credit Coun c il would be requested to permit nonresi­ dent franc accounts to bear interest again, and that the Bank of France would reduce the reserve requirements on nonresident accounts to the levels applicable to resi­ dents' deposits. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market, pre­ viously F 5.55419, became F 5.11570. France availed itself of wider margins and the official limits for the U . S. dollar were set at F 5.0005 and F 5.2310. The dual exchange market was maintained. December 21. Bank of France C i rcu lar N o. 4 P . B. of August 3, 1971, as amended, was revoked; the banks' net overall external position in francs and foreign cur­ rencies ceased to be subject to limitation. December 21. The Bank of France revoked the December 8 suspension of authorized banks' freedom to borrow francs from nonresidents in swaps against for­ eign currencies. December 21. The Bank of France brought the reserve requirements on franc deposits of nonresidents back into line w i th those for residents. The requirement thus was reduced for foreign banks and correspondents from 12% per cent to 10 per cent for demand deposits and from 6V2 per cent to 4 per cent for time deposits with an in i t ial maturity of less than three years. December 24. A compensatory tax of 6 per cent ad valorem was levied on agricultural imports from non- E EC countries and on imports of the same commodi­ ties from Italy when their Italian or ig in could not be documented. December 27. The Na t ional Cred it Coun c il revoked, w i th retroactive effect from December 21, the August prohibition of interest payments on nonresident-held franc deposits w i th a maturity of less than 90 days in Foreign Accounts in Francs. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun ( B C E A E C) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commis­ sion charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i. e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as we ll as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as we ll as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A E C, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 - U S $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Mauritania, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Gabon itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela­ tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations in the M in is try of Finance and the Budget supervises borrow­ ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and out- 1 The C FA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique. Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. ward direct investment. Exchange control is adminis­ tered by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority for current pay­ ments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the B C E A E C. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i. e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy, Trade, Industry, and Development. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A rea, since the B C E A EC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the F rench Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F inan­ c ial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E A EC bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E A EC agency in L ib rev i l le by authorized banks' foreign corre­ spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E A EC banknotes, F rench banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Some imports are prohibited for security or health reasons. Imports of cement from a ll sources require special authorization. A ll other imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea and from member countries of the E EC other than France may be made freely. A ll imports from n o n -EEC countries outside the French F ranc A r ea are subject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. G lob al quotas are established for imports from a ll n o n -EEC countries outside the F rench F ranc A r e a. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. A few commodities in the 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G A B ON program are subject to ceilings for a ll n o n -EEC coun­ tries outside the French Franc A r e a. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the F rench Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun­ tries are subject to approval. F or many types of pay­ ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac­ tion has been approved or does not require authoriza­ tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the F rench F ranc A rea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a tr ip ( C F AF 87,500 for children under ten ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. F or business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 400,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel alloca­ tions may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E A EC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E A EC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc A rea are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and mining products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petroleum) require licenses. G o ld and uranium may be exported only to France. Exporters may obtain import licenses for additional quantities of commodities included in the import program and essential to their export activities, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 168 days after the arrival of the commodities at their desti­ nation. The proceeds must be collected, and surren­ dered if received in a foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for­ eign currency surrendered, w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A E C, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the F rench F ranc A r e a. Capital Cap i tal movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. A ll foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi­ ties in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Direct investments abroad 2 must be declared to the M in i s t ry of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest­ ment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial l iqu ida­ tion of such investments also requires declaration to the M in i s t ry unless the operation involves the re l in­ quishing of a participation that had previously been 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved as constituting the making of a direct invest­ ment abroad. Fo re ign direct investments in G a b o n3 must be declared to the M in is ter, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the M in i s t ry unless the operation involves the re l in­ quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest­ ment in Gabon. Bo th the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese invest­ ments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days following each operation. D i rect investments are defined as invest­ ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest­ ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Gabon requires p r ior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to secu­ rities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrow ing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jur id ical persons whose reg­ istered office is abroad, requires p r ior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in wh ich these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The contract­ ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total out­ standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is C F AF 5 m i l l ion or less. Lending abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, 3 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. G A B ON whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jur id ical persons whose reg­ istered office is abroad, requires pr ior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Fore ign F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of a ll loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed C F AF 5 m i l l ion. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on M a r ch 23, 1967 and Ju ly 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domes­ tic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for five categories of treatment. Three of these apply to enterprises established in Gabon and whose activity is limited to the national ter­ ritory of Gabon (categories I A, IB, and II, according to the economic importance of the enterprise). The other types of treatment apply to enterprises established in Gabon whose market includes the territory of two or more states of the Central A f r i c an Customs and E c o­ nomic Un ion —UDEAC — (ca tego r ies III and I V, depending on the importance of the enterprise). Prefer­ ential treatments IA and IB are granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment II is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's eco­ nomic development and involving exceptionally high investments; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Preferential treatment III includes special import privileges and treatment IV includes, in addition to the privileges mentioned above, the advantage of a founding agreement (convention d'etablissement). Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the M in is ter of Na t ional E con­ omy, Trade, Industry, and Development, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Invest­ ment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Coun­ c il of Ministers. Preferential treatments I A, IB, and II are granted by decree issued by the Coun c il of M i n i s­ ters. Preferential treatments III and IV are granted by a certification of the U D E AC upon the recommenda­ tion of the Counc il of Ministers. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and of government contracts. N o n- Gaboriese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G A B ON Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budget, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 May. A commemorative gold coin was issued. July 9. Ordinance N o. 38/71 amended the Annex to the Investment Code. August 31. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrange­ ments were introduced in Gabon. The exchange rate for the F rench franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were intro­ duced, which were related to the financial franc mar­ ket. B C E A EC banknotes, wh ich since October 16, 1970 had been accepted for credit to convertible F o r­ eign Accounts in Francs, provided that they were mailed direct to the B C E A EC agency in L ib rev i l le by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 7. The foreign exchange allocations for tourist and business travel were increased. December 21. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market was changed from C F AF 277.710 = US$1 to C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.426562 gram of fine gold per Gamb ian Da las i. The currency issuing authority is the Cen tral Bank of The Gamb ia. In practice, the Bank deals only in sterling, the intervention currency, and charges a commission of of 1 per cent for buying, or V2 of 1 per cent for selling, based on the fixed rate of <£ stg. 1 = DG 5. The commercial banks deal with cus­ tomers for spot transactions in sterling at rates w i th in 1 per cent of the Bank's fixed rate and in other curren­ cies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in is t ry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange con­ trol is carried out by the Cen tral Bank. The commercial banks, wh ich have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling A r ea for imports from outside the A r ea that are covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments out­ side the Sterling A r e a. A ll other sales of non-Sterling A r ea currencies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The M in i s t ry of Finance is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gamb ia is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and settlements w i th other Sterling A r ea countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea may be made and received in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian cur­ rency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. Nonresident Accounts Banking accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author­ ized payments from residents of the Sterling A r e a, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling A r ea currencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling A r ea currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain B locked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gamb ia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. A ll other imports are freely permitted under an Open General License if imported from the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) a ll countries within the Sterling A r e a; (2) Aus t r ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Repub­ lic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether­ lands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the over­ seas territories of these countries; and (3) Argentina, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, M a l i, Mo rocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugo­ slavia. Imports from Sterling A r ea countries may be paid for freely in dalasis or in any other currency of the Sterling A r e a. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling A r ea may be approved by an authorized dealer on pro­ duction of evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a va l id specific import license. F or imports from outside the Sterling A r ea which do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance payments for imports, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Central Bank in a ll cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the normal practice of the trade. Payments for imports from outside the Sterling A r ea may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to Sterling A r ea countries may be made freely. Payments in currencies of countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea require permission from the Cen­ tral Bank except where authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sun­ dry payments. Such permission by the Central Bank is liberally given in a ll genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may author­ ize a basic exchange allowance up to DG 750 for each journey but not exceeding DG 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel outside the Sterling A r e a. F or business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide residents with exchange facilities up to DG 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding DG 125 a day subject to a maximum of DG 3,500 in any one calendar year. A ny excess over these allowances requires permission from the Central Bank. Of the above amounts, up to DG 250 may be taken in currency notes and coins of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Irre­ spective of destination, each traveler leaving The G am- 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T HE G A M B IA bia may take out DG 75 in Gamb ian and /or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gamb ia may also take out w i th them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crusta­ ceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of a ll goods to Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Po land, Ruman ia, the U. S. S. R ., and Yugoslavia. The export of a ll other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open General License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling A r ea must be received within six months from the date of export in a non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency or in dalasis or sterling from an External Accoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gamb ian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Out­ ward transfers may be effected freely to countries within the Sterling A r ea but are subject to control to countries outside the A r e a. At the time of making investments in The Gamb ia, nonresident investors may apply for an undertaking as to the authorization of applications for the subsequent repatriation of capital; the remittance of profits is freely allowed after provision has been made for local taxation. A ll other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling A r ea are dealt with by the Cen tral Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank; such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered outside The Gamb ia for their operations in The Gamb ia. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United K ingdom requires licensing by the M in i s t ry of Finance; otherwise, gold coins and bu l l ion may be imported freely. A ll internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1971 March 1. The Central Bank of The Gamb ia com­ menced operations and assumed responsibility for cur­ rency issue from the Gamb ian Currency Board. May 10. The Central Bank increased its selling margin for sterling from % of 1 per cent to V2 of 1 per cent. May 21. The powers to administer the Exchange Con t rol A ct were delegated to the Cen tral Bank. July 1. The Gamb ia Produce Ma rke t ing Board assumed sole responsibility for the import of rice, wh ich previously was undertaken by the R ice Consortium. July 1. The Gamb ian pound was replaced by a new decimal currency unit called the dalasi, 5 dalasis equal­ ing £G 1. The par value of the new unit was estab­ lished at 0.426562 gram of fine gold or DG 1 = US$0 .48. Its introduction involved no appreciation or depreciation of the Gamb ian currency. July 29. Au thor ized dealers were given delegated powers to approve a ll payments for imports from out­ side the Sterling A r ea that were covered by specific licenses. August 16. The effective parity relationship for the pound sterling was maintained. As a result, the dalasi began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. November 5. The basic allowance for travel outside the Sterling A r ea was reduced from the equivalent of DG 1,500 a person a trip to DG 750 a person a trip, subject to a l im it of DG 1,500 a person a year; the basic allowance could no longer be accumulated for up to three years. Au thor ized dealers were empowered to approve sundry payments to nonresidents of the Ster­ ling A rea within prescribed limits. November 23. The Gamb ia ceased to invoke A r t i­ cle X X XV of the G A TT in respect of Japan. December 20. The par value in terms of gold and the effective parity relationship for sterling were ma in­ tained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became DG 1 = US$0 .521143. The Gamb ia d id not avail itself of wider margins. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY * Exchange System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche M a r k. A central rate of DM 3.2225 = US$1 has been established, and Germany has availed itself of wider margins of 2% per cent. The official limits established by the Federal Government for the Bundes­ bank's dealings with banks in U. S. dollars, the interven­ tion currency, are DM 3.1500 buying, and DM 3.2950 selling, per US $ 1. F or banks' transactions with their customers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Ma rket rates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar main­ tained by Germany 1 and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Fourteen other currencies are also regularly quoted in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transac­ tions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. In accordance with international understandings, there is an almost total prohibition of payments and transfers to Rhodesia and of trade and capital transac­ tions involving Rhodesia. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on payments, no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents, and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, with the exception that payment of interest on nonresident accounts at present requires prior approval, which is not normally granted. Payment of interest on savings deposits of natural persons, however, is permitted for balances up to DM 50,000. Germany formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal M in is t ry of Economics and Finance, the Federal M in is t ry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur gewerb- liche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Ernahrung und Forstwirt- schaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority that would be in charge of any exchange controls that might concern capital transactions; the Bank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of money market paper and, under certain circumstances, fixed- interest domestic securities, as well as for the payment of interest on nonresident-held deposits in Germany. A ll banks in Germany are permitted to carry out for­ eign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Cap i tal Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of bond issues. Imports and Import Payments The Import L is t, which is part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, comprises a total of some 8,300 statistical positions. Of these, some 5,100 may be imported free of license from any country. Commod i­ ties corresponding to 2,800 other positions may be imported free of license from countries in Country Lists A and B, and commodities covered by another 275 positions may be imported free of license from coun­ tries in Country L ist A .2 Certain petroleum products (6 positions) require a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European C o al and Steel Community are permitted within the framework of a global quota. Some 1,135 of the 8,300 statistical items are covered by the C om­ mon Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E E C; most of these are subject to variable import levies which have replaced a ll previous barriers to imports. De facto liberalization is extended to certain com­ modities (about 1,500 statistical items) when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, pro­ vided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely ( A M L A3 procedure). Imports not subject to licensing require only an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundes­ bank, which serves as documentation. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain excep­ tions, such as foods imported by tourists, samples, gifts, * With effect from April 24, 1972, the Bundesbank narrowed the margins for the Belgian franc, the French franc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder. On May 1, narrower margins were also applied to the Danish krone and the pound sterling. 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). £ Countries in list A are those of the former OEEC area; countries in list C are the CM EA countries, mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam; and countries in list B comprise those included neither in list A nor in list C. Lists A and B are contained in the Import List and list C is part of the Foreign Trade and Pay­ ments Ordinance. 3 Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F E D E R AL R E P U B L IC OF G E R M A NY and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open ( A M LA procedure). F or manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. F or agricul­ tural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. Payments for imports are free, even if the underly­ ing import transaction is s t i ll restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transac­ tions may, in principle, be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles may be made freely w i th­ out individual license, except to Rhodesia. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related payments—between residents and nonresidents are sub­ ject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traffic; transactions w i th specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treat­ ment) for hu ll and marine l iab i l i ty insurance and avia­ tion insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with non­ residents; and certain contracts with nonresidents per­ taining to motion-picture films.4 Exports and Export Proceeds W i th few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. F or a ll goods, an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports— mostly strategic goods and agricultural commodities subject to E EC regulations—are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for a ll payments. Claims in excess of DM 20,000 that have been overdue for more than three months and prepayments in excess of DM 10,000 must be reported. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th few exceptions, services performed for non- 4 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German- speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CM EA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CM EA countries. 174 residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of list C countries (see footnote 2) of con­ structional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, except to Rhodes ia .5 Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. H ow­ ever, a system of voluntary coordination of banks is operated by the Central Cap i tal Ma rket Committee. (In M ay 1971, the Committee recommended a tem­ porary suspension of new bond issues denominated in deutsche mark, by residents and nonresidents alike, but such issues were resumed shortly thereafter.) Securities of a ll types may be imported or exported freely, although transactions with nonresidents in money market paper and, under repurchase agreements, transactions in certain fixed-interest securities require the pr ior approval of the Bundesbank. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Banks are not normally permitted to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports require a 5 On March 1, 1972, a cash deposit requirement on certain borrow­ ing by residents from nonresidents was introduced. The deposit had to be lodged with the Bundesbank in deutsche mark and was non- interest bearing. The rate of deposit was set at 40 per cent of the liabilities covered. These were all loans or other credits taken up directly or indirectly from nonresidents; credits for this purpose were defined as all transactions and acts that in economic terms repre­ sented the taking up of credit. Exemptions from the deposit require­ ment included (1) an allowance of DM 2 million for each debtor, by which the monthly average of the liabilities subject to the deposit regulations is reduced; (2) liabilities resulting from payments terms and credit related to the supply of goods or services by a nonresident to a resident, provided these terms or credits were traditional in the trade concerned, or resulting from the acceptance of similarly customary advance payments; (3) liabilities under credits related to certain outward direct investment; (4) liabilities resulting from certain debt instruments of types admissible for official listing on a German stock exchange; (5) most types of liabilities of credit institutions, provided they were either subject to the Bundesbank's minimum reserve requirements or expressly exempted from those requirements (or admissible for compensation under those requirements); and (6) liabilities that had arisen before March 1, 1972, provided they resulted from contracts or transactions concluded before January 1, 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia or, in certain circumstances, in a country on country list C. W i th these exceptions, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, howeve*, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are legal tender, including sovereigns, are ex­ empt from this tax and from customs duty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Commerc ial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1971 February 25. The Bundesbank requested the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk to offer three-month for­ ward marks in the New Y o rk market for the account of the Bundesbank. These sales were discontinued in m id -Ma rch. March 24. The self-restraint program for imports of heavy heating o il was formally terminated. March 31. The Bundesbank announced, with effect from A p r il 1, the lowering of its rediscount rate from 6 per cent to 5 per cent and of the Lomba rd rate from 7.5 per cent to 6.5 per cent. At the same time, the redis­ count quotas of commercial banks were cut by 10 per cent. April 2. The Bundesbank resumed its intervention in the forward exchange market; this intervention took the form of outright sales of three-month forward deutsche mark at the spot ceiling rate. Th is action was supported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk which, deal­ ing for Reserve System account, offered forward marks at the same rate in New Y o r k. The joint operations con­ tinued through most of A p r i l. April 7. The Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance was amended. W i th effect from June 1, 1971, the reporting requirements for nonbank residents in respect of balances held abroad and claims and liabilities vis-a­ vis nonresidents were tightened; that in respect of over­ due export claims was eased. Among the changes was a new reporting requirement for liabilities on inter­ company accounts. April 28. The Bundesbank announced that it had ceased buying U. S. dollars forward. May 5. The Bundesbank at the request of the Fed­ eral Government suspended its exchange market inter­ vention in the form of spot purchases of U. S. dollars. The foreign exchange market was closed (although F E D E R AL R E P U B L IC OF G E R M A NY banks were legally free to continue to deal if they wished). It reopened on May 10. May 9. The Bundesbank announced that, with effect from May 10, it would at the request of the Federal Government no longer maintain the exchange rates for the deutsche mark within the established margins ( DM 3.63 buying and DM 3.69 selling, per U S $ 1 ). On M ay 10, the deutsche mark began to float and to appre­ ciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. May 9. The Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance was amended by the insertion of Articles 52, 53, and 54. The ir effect was that from May 10 essentially the same limitations and prohibitions on financial transac­ tions with nonresidents were introduced that had been in force from 1961 through 1969 and abolished on December 20, 1969. Banks required permission to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency deposits placed with them by nonresidents; such permission would not normally be granted. Savings deposits in the name of nonresident individuals, however, were exempt up to an amount of DM 50,000, and existing time deposits until the maturity date or until the bank could give notice of termination to the customer. Nonresidents needed spe­ c ial authorization for a ll purchases from residents of domestic money market paper (including treasury bills and bills of exchange) and for purchases of domestic fixed-interest securities in which the resident seller undertook an obligation to reacquire the securities later under a fixed-price repurchase agreement (en pension transactions). Certain nonresident physical persons of German nationality were exempt from these regulations. May 12. An E EC ordinance allowed Germany to introduce levies on imports and subsidies on exports of agricultural commodities if the deutsche mark appre­ ciated by more than 2.5 per cent above its official parity of DM 3.66 = US$1. Such levies and subsidies were introduced on M ay 14 and M ay 18, respectively, both retroactive to M ay 12. June 2. The Bundesbank announced, with effect from June 1, the raising of minimum reserve requirements on commercial banks' domestic liabilities by 15 per cent across the board and on banks' foreign liabilities to a level twice as high as the new minimum reserve require­ ments on domestic liabilities. The 30 per cent additional reserve requirement on increases in liabilities to non­ residents, which had been reintroduced on December 1, 1970, remained unchanged. The supplementary redis­ count quotas for "third-country b i l l s" were canceled with effect from October 1. June 2. The Bundesbank announced that it was resuming intervention in the exchange market for the first time since the floating of the deutsche mark by offering spot U. S. dollars at DM 3.5675 per U. S. do l­ lar. The operation was continued over the next few weeks, at varying rates acceptable to the Bundesbank. On August 5, however, the Bundesbank for the first time purchased spot U. S. dollars again. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F E D E R AL R E P U B L IC OF G E R M A NY July 1. Generalized tariff preferences went into effect for specified commodities originating in most developing countries. July 21. The Cabinet announced its decision to intro­ duce draft legislation empowering the authorities to impose cash deposit requirements, retroactive to Ju ly 21, against the foreign borrowings of nonbanking enter­ prises. August 16. The foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23, when the deutsche mark continued to float. September 7. The official quotation for the Japanese yen was suspended. Official quotation was resumed on January 6, 1972. September 21. The Bundesbank announced it was prepared to buy U. S. dollars forward (at one to three months), provided it found the rates quoted by banks acceptable. September 23. Imports of commodities falling under 10 statistical positions were formally liberalized, i.e., permitted without an import license, for all countries. Furthermore, imports of commodities falling under 27 statistical positions were formally liberalized when originating in or purchased in any of the countries of list C (A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Mongo l ia, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R ., and No r th V ie t -Nam ). October 13. The Bundesbank announced, with effect from October 14, a reduction in its rediscount rate to 4.5 per cent and in its Lombard rate to 5.5 per cent. It also announced, with effect from November 1, a 10 per cent across-the-board reduction in m in imum reserve requirements on domestic liabilities. The two reserve requirements against foreign liabilities remained unchanged. October 21. The Federal Government announced its intention to introduce an exchange risk insurance sys­ tem designed to protect exporters who might be adversely affected by the fluctuations of the deutsche mark rate. The scheme would provide cover against exchange rate fluctuations of more than 3 per cent on long-term contracts denominated in foreign currency. (The exchange rate insurance facilities came into force on February 24, 1972 and could be applied to export transactions concluded on or after January 1, 1972. E l ig ib le for cover were export transactions invoiced in U. S. dollars, sterling, or Swiss francs and having a maturity in excess of two years. No cover was granted for the first two years of any contract. The exchange rate insured was the middle rate officially quoted on the Frankfurt exchange for the currency concerned on the last day of the uncovered two-year period of the con­ tract. The exporter would bear any exchange loss up to 3 per cent, and the Federal Government any excess; the exporter could retain any exchange profit up to 3 per cent but would have to transfer to the Government any excess. The premium was set at 0.6, 0.65, or 0.7 per cent per annum, depending on the other types of export risk insured jointly with the exchange rate risk. Cover would be provided by the Hermes Kreditversicherungs A. G .) December 23. The cash deposit law (Bardepotgesetz) was enacted. It amended the Foreign Trade and Pay­ ments Law and empowered the administration to require residents, including banks, to lodge noninterest- bearing cash deposits in deutsche mark with the Bundesbank corresponding to at most 50 per cent of their loans and other credits taken up directly or ind i­ rectly from nonresisents, other than liabilities resulting from normal international transactions in goods and services. Branches and subsidiaries in Germany of non­ resident firms would for purposes of the deposit require­ ment be considered as jur id ica l ly independent. Exempt from the requirement were any liabilities against wh ich m in imum reserves had to be held w i th the Bundesbank. The law came into force on January 1, 1972. On M a r ch 1, 1972, the Federal Government passed the 21st Ordinance Amend ing the Fore ign Trade and Pay­ ments Ordinance, according to which the cash deposit requirement for most foreign liabilities of residents came into force on the same day. At the same time, the Bundesbank, acting with the approval of the M in is ter of Economics and Finance, established the rate of deposit at 40 per cent. December 20. The foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 21. December 21. A central rate of DM 3.2225 = US$1 was established and Germany availed itself of wider margins of 2!4 per cent. The Bundesbank henceforth stood ready to buy and sell U. S. dollars at DM 3.1500 and DM 3.2950, respectively. A ll existing restraints against inflows of foreign funds were maintained. December 22. The Bundesbank announced, with effect from December 23, a reduction in its rediscount rate to 4 per cent and in its Lombard rate to 5 per cent. At the same time it announced, with effect from January 1, 1972, a 10 per cent reduction in the m in imum reserve requirements against domestic liabilities of banks. The two reserve requirements on banks' foreign liabilities remained unchanged. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G H A NA Exchange Rate System T he p ar v a l ue is 0 . 4 5 0 1 82 g r am of fine g o ld p er G h a n a i an N ew C e d i. T he effective p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip f or the U . S. d o l l ar is N0 1 = U S $ 0 . 5 5 .1 T he B a nk of G h a na quo tes rates f or the U. S. d o l l ar a nd s t e r l i n g; on D e c em b er 3 1, 1971 the B a n k 's rates we re N0 4 .73 p er £ s tg. 1 a nd N0 LSI p er U S $ 1. F or o ther c u r r e n c i e s, the c o m m e r c i al b a n ks in A c c ra base th e ir ra tes on the c u r r e nt L o n d on m a r k et rates p l us or m i n us the ex ch ange cha rge of % of 1 p er cent l e v i ed on s t e r l i ng t r an s a c t ions a nd a b r o k e r a ge fee of % of 1 p er cen t. T he a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks m ay a r r ange exchanges of G h a n a i an c u r r e n cy f or a ny f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a nd engage in a rb i t rage in a ll c u r­ r en c i e s, spot or f o r w a r d, but they do n ot m a i n t a in f o r­ e i gn exchange ba lance s, r e c e i v i ng t h e ir r e q u i r em e n ts f r om the B a nk of G h a na on a d ay - to -d ay bas is. Administration of Control T he C o n t r o l l er of Im p o r ts a nd E x p o r ts at the M i n i s t ry of T r a de is em p ow e r e d, on b e h a lf of the M i n i s t ry of T r a d e, to p r o h i b i t, regu la te, or l i c en se the im p o rt a nd e x p o rt of a ll good s. A p p l i c a t i o ns by the i n d u s t r i al sec tor a nd c e r t a in state agenc ies f or i n d i v i d u al im p o rt l icenses mu st be c h a n n e l ed t h r o u gh the a p p r o­ p r i a te m i n i s t ry or g o v e r nm e nt ag en cy f or endo r s em en t. A p p l i c a t i o ns that h ave been endo r s ed by the comp e t ent m i n i s t ry or agency are th en f o rw a r d ed to the C o n t r o l l er of Im p o r ts a nd E x p o r ts at the M i n i s t ry of T r a d e. A p p l i c a t i o ns by the c o m m e r c i al houses f or the im p o rt of c o n s um er a nd inv e s tm ent goods are s u bm i t t ed d i r e ct to the M i n i s t ry of T r a d e. T he C o n t r o l l er of Im p o r ts a nd E x p o r ts issues i m p o rt l icenses f or i t ems on the R e s t r i c t ed L i st on the bas is of p e r i o d ic f o r e i gn exchange a l l o c a t i o ns p r o v i d ed by the B a nk of G h a n a. T he E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol D e p a r tm e nt of the B a nk of G h a na adm in i s t e rs the a l l o c a t i on of ex ch ange f or p a y­ men ts f or i n v i s i b l es a nd c a p i t a l. P e rm i t t ed f o r e i gn exchange t ran sac t ions mu st be m a de t h r o u gh a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. Prescription of Currency G h a na is a m em b er of the S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd has p r e s c r i p t i on of c u r r e n cy r equ i r em en ts s im i l ar to those of the U n i t ed K i n g d o m. Se t t lemen ts be tween res iden ts of G h a na a nd res iden ts of o ther S t e r l i ng A r ea c o u n­ t r ies m ay be m a de in n ew ced is t h r o u gh S t e r l i ng A r ea A c c o u n t s, in s t e r l ing, or in o th er S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n­ c ie s. A u t h o r i z ed p a ym e n t s, i n c l u d i ng p aym en ts f or im p o r t s, by res iden ts of G h a na to res iden ts of coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o ther t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be m a de in new ced is to the c r e d it of a F o r e i gn A c c o u n t, in s t e r l i ng to the c r e d it of an E x t e r n al A c c o u n t, or in any n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y. R e c e i p ts f r om res iden ts 1 On February 7, 1972, a new official exchange rate of N (f 1 = US$0.78 was introduced. of c o u n t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o th er t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be o b t a i n ed in n ew c ed is f r om a F o r e i gn A c c o u n t, in s t e r l i ng f r om an E x t e r n al A c c o u n t, or in any n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y. H o w e v e r, settlements r e l a t ed to t r an s a c t ions c o v e r ed by b i l a t e r al t rade a nd p a ym e n ts agreemen ts are m a de t h r o u gh c l e a r i ng a c coun ts m a i n t a i n ed by the B a nk of G h a na a n d / or the c e n t r al or state b a n ks of the c o u n t r i es c o n c e r n e d .2 Nonresident Accounts A c c o u n ts in n ew ced is h e ld by res iden ts of coun t r i es w i t h in the S t e r l i ng A r ea o th er t h an G h a na are de s ig­ n a t ed S t e r l i ng A r ea A c c o u n t s. T h e se a c coun ts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts by res iden ts of G h a n a, w i th transfers f r om F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts a nd f r om o ther S t e r l i ng A r ea A c c o u n t s, a nd w i th the p roceeds f r om sales of S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i e s. T h ey m ay be d e b i t ed f or p a ym e n ts to res iden ts of S t e r l i ng A r ea c o u n t r i e s, f or t rans fe rs to o th er S t e r l i ng A r ea A c c o u n t s, a nd f or pu rcha ses of S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i e s. A c c o u n ts in n ew ced is h e ld by res iden ts of coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o th er t h an R h o d e s ia w i th a u t h o r i z ed b anks in G h a na are de s igna ted F o r e i gn A c c o u n t s. T he o p e n i ng of these a c coun ts is sub ject to a p p r o v al by the B a nk of G h a n a. T he a c coun ts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed o u tw a rd p a ym e n ts by res iden ts of S t e r l i ng A r ea c o u n t r i e s, w i th transfers f r om o ther F o r e i gn A c c o u n t s, a nd w i th the p roceeds f r om sales of n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i es o t h er t h an R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or i n w a rd p a ym e n ts to res iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r e a, f or t rans fe rs to o ther F o r e i gn A c c o u n t s, a nd f or pu rcha ses of S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i es o ther t h an R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. N o n r e s i d e nt a c coun ts m a i n t a i n ed u n d er the p r o­ v i s i o ns of b i l a t e r al p aym en ts agreemen ts are c a l l ed "O f f i c i al A c c o u n t s" or " T e r r i t o r i al A c c o u n t s ." Th e se accoun ts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed o u tw a rd p aym en ts by res iden ts of S t e r l i ng A r ea c o u n t r i e s, w i th t rans fe rs f r om F o r e i gn A c c o u n t s, w i th p a ym e n ts r e c e i v ed t h r o u gh the B a nk of G h a na f or se t t lemen ts w i th b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts agreement c o u n t r i e s, a nd w i th p roceeds f r om sales of n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i es o ther t h an R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or a u t h o r i z ed i n w a rd p aym en ts to res iden ts of G h a n a, f or t rans fe rs to o th er O f f i c i al A c c o u n ts r e l a t ed to the same c o u n t r y, a nd f or t rans fe rs to the r e l a t ed c l e a r i ng a c c o u nt at the B a nk of G h a n a. B l o c k ed A c c o u n ts are non r e s id ent a c coun ts of ano ther c a t ego ry, the pu rpo se of w h i ch is to rece ive funds that are not p l a c ed at the free d i s p o s al of non re s iden t s, e.g., 2 Ghana maintains such agreements with Bulgaria, mainland Ch in a, Cub a, Egypt, Gu inea, Po land, Ruman ia, U. S. S. R ., Upper Vo l ta, and Yugoslavia. The agreements with mainland Ch in a, C u b a, and Gu inea are at present inoperative. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G H A NA certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, South-West A f r i c a, and the Portuguese Monetary A r ea are not per­ mitted. A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be registered and have to pay a flat registration fee of N0 50 a year. Unregis­ tered importers pay a fee of N0 25 a year which entitles them to import goods on an open general license only. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, as well as certain other commodities of a luxury character, are severely restricted; these are specified in a L i st of Restricted Imports or a L ist of Banned Imports com­ prising some 80 items.3 There are ten open general licenses wh ich permit any registered importer to import freely (and normally from any country) the commodities specified in the relevant license. These commodities include most chemicals, spare parts, fertilizers, certain electric machinery, mineral manufactures, paper and paperboard, certain foodstuffs, and pharmaceutical products. A ll other imports require individual licenses; for some, the license must be obtained before orders are placed. Individual licenses are of two kinds: specific licenses and special unnumbered licenses. A ll goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and therefore no transfer of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses"; these are not issued for imports in commercial quantities. Except for aid imports or imports under bilateral payments agreements, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. In principle, exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana, but certain arrears have arisen. W i th the exception of aid imports, imports under bilateral payments agreements, and certain other imports for which exemption has been granted by the M in i s t ry of Trade in consultation with the Bank of Ghana, a ll goods must be imported on credit terms of 180 days after shipment.4 Commerc ial banks usually require importers to make downpayments 3 In addition, certain imports are prohibited, either for reasons of health or public order (absolute prohibitions) or for other reasons (conditional prohibitions); the latter items may under certain circum­ stances be imported with special approval. 4 The following items may be imported on normal commercial terms: rice, sugar, milk, baby foods, corned beef, sardines, salmon, pilchards, and mackerel from all countries; and beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and liver when imported from African countries. 178 on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Some imports are subject to a sales tax of one new pesewa a pound (which is equivalent to about 10 per cent ad valorem on rice and about 18 per cent on sugar). M a ny imports are subject to a levy of IIV2 per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, import duty, and other import charges. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Con t rol Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support a ll applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. The following categories of payments are normally authorized in connection with the importation of goods: (1) the buying commission —this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted from the value of the import license; (2) the transfer of normal bank charges paya­ ble to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. W i th few exceptions, insurance on a ll imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency w i th local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of N0 3,000 a year, and are per­ mitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least N0 1,000; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover a ll personal and family requirements and commitments outside Ghana, inc lud­ ing leave expenses, travel for health purposes, educa­ tion, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of N0 3,000. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with loca l ly raised capital, per­ mitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., profits after payment of the prevailing 55 per cent tax for commercial companies and the 50 per cent tax for other companies; at present, however, profit transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The trans­ fer of profits by companies that are either foreign- owned or owned or controlled by nonresidents and that have been financed w i th locally raised capital is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanaians is N0 104.06 for each person 18 years of age or over and N0 47.30 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana are allowed up to N0 946 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota ( if any ). Exchange for business travel is granted as follows: a basic travel allowance of N0 496.65 a journey plus an additional allocation determined on the merits of the application; not more than two journeys a year are allowed. A ll residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination, subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may be permitted to take with them additional foreign currency equivalent to N0 236.50, provided that not more than the equivalent of N0 47.30 is taken in banknotes in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to N0 47.30, but may be spent only on Ghanaian aircraft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unuti­ lized foreign currency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, South-West A f r i ca (Namibia), and the Portuguese Monetary A r ea are pro­ hibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marke t ing Board. N o r­ mally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of ship­ ment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be sur­ rendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author­ ized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghanaian cur­ rency notes is prohibited, with the exception of the reim­ portation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval. The Cap i tal Investments A c t, which was promulgated in A p r il 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new invest­ ments. Under the act, approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and u t i l i­ zation of productive capacity, the reduction of imports, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. However, certain retail, wholesale, and transportation operations are not open to foreigners. Investments G H A NA approved under this act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquida­ tion, capital proceeds; tax holidays, in i t ial capital allow­ ances, etc., are also available for such investments. The act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enter­ prises are nationalized in the public interest, fair com­ pensation is to be determined either by voluntary agree­ ment of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A Cap i tal Investments Board decides which foreign investments qualify for benefits under the act. A ll outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intesta­ cies are approved, provided that a ll local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds repre­ senting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate docu­ mentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to be reinvested in government bonds or treasury b i l ls; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Lo an and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permis­ sion. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the M in is t ry of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the G o ld M i n i ng Products Protec­ tion Ordinance. W i th these exceptions, no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed; imports for indus­ tr ial use are very small, a specified commercial bank being the sole importer. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefined form. Exports are free of duties or taxes; 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G H A NA the m in ing corporations are subject to a minerals tax based mainly on profits. Changes during 1971 March 20. No t ice to Importers N o. 363 removed rice from the import items on open general license. April 20. A ct 357, providing for the payment of an export bonus to exporters of specified items, went into effect. F or export receipts surrendered to the Bank of Ghana in the fiscal year 1969/70, the scheme provided for the payment of a bonus in new cedis at the rate of 10 per cent of the increment of export receipts over the 1968/69 financial year. F or export receipts surrendered in the fiscal year 1970/71 and thereafter, exporters would be eligible to receive a bonus calculated on the basis of the annual value of exports, at rates determined by the Minister of Finance. May 3. The banking arrangement between Ghana and Upper V o l ta signed in November 1970 entered into force. May 28. The Bank of Ghana announced that regis­ tered importers wishing to import machinery and equip­ ment under open general license valued at more than N0 50,000 were asked to refer their applications to the Exchange Con t rol Department of the Bank of Ghana for approval of the terms of payment. June 11. The Bank of Ghana announced that imports of specified items would be required to be inspected before shipment from the port of export. Clearance through customs of these goods at the point of entry would not be permitted if they arrived in Ghana on or after September 1, 1971 unless proof of inspection was presented. June 25. Notice to Importers N o. 365 announced the addition of certain types of power cables to the items on the Restricted L is t. July 2. A Government Gazette notice established the regulations implementing the provisions of A ct 357 of A p r il 20. The Export Bonus Scheme was applicable to a ll exports to A f r ican countries except cocoa beans, minerals, and primary metals. Of exports to non-African countries, all exports, except the following, were eligible for the bonus: timber and its derivatives (excluding plywood and furniture); cocoa beans and products; and a ll minerals and primary metals. For export receipts surrendered in 1970/71 or thereafter, the bonus was fixed at 25 per cent of the value of exports expressed in new cedis. The Bank of Ghana was to keep a record of the export performance of individual exporters, and the bonus was to be paid upon presentation by the exporter of proof of surrender of foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Ghana. July 27. The customs tariff regulations were amended by increasing by 50 per cent a ll rates of duty specified therein in the case of goods originating in a country 180 which the M in is ter of Finance determined had imposed, in respect of Ghanaian exports, import duties or other import taxes higher than those levied on similar goods originating from any other country. The temporary import surcharges introduced in August 1970 were simi­ lar ly amended. Furthermore, a ll government departments and statutory corporations were henceforth required to pay import duties, excise duties, sales taxes, purchase taxes, and import surcharges at the established rates. In addition, import duties on a number of items were con­ verted from specific to ad valorem basis. July 27. The sales tax payable at the time of importa­ tion on imports of l iqu id petroleum gas, motor spirits, and gas o il were increased. The sales tax on imports of sugar, salt, rice, and flour was lowered from 11.5 per cent of the duty-inclusive value to 5 per cent. July 27. Subject to certain conditions, Ghanaians who had been resident outside Ghana for at least one year continuously were exempted from import duties and other import levies in respect of their movable per­ sonal belongings imported on their return to Ghana. July 27. The temporary import surcharges established on August 25, 1970 were amended by A ct 376. Goods were classified into six categories: items listed in the first five categories were subject to rates of surcharge of 5, 10, 25, 40, or 75 per cent ad valorem when imported under open general license; items listed in the sixth schedule were subject to ad valorem rates of 5, 25, or 40 per cent and consisted pr imar i ly of raw materials requiring specific licenses. Imports of certain food items (e.g., m i lk and cream, and tinned fish and meat) pre­ viously free of surcharges were made subject to a sur­ charge at the rate of 5 per cent. July 27. No t ice to Importers N o. 368 banned the importation of passenger cars. July 27. A ct 378 established a tax on remittances of specified current invisibles to be paid pr ior to the alloca­ tion of foreign exchange at the following rates: (1) dividends, profits, and royalties (excluding profits and dividends relating to any period pr ior to Ju ly 1, 1971), 25 per cent; (2) airline and shipping remittances other than remittances in connection w i th merchandise imports, 10 per cent; (3) insurance premiums, 10 per cent; (4) personal remittances, 10 per cent; (5) stu­ dents' remittances, 10 per cent; (6) transfers to Ghana's missions abroad, 10 per cent; (7) business travel and private travel, 25 per cent; (8) commissions, 25 per cent; (9) interest payments, 25 per cent; (10) head- office expenses, 25 per cent; and (11) a ll other cur­ rent payments and transfers, except those in connection with merchandise imports, 25 per cent. The M in is ter of Finance was given the authority to grant partial or total exemptions from the tax. July 27. The ceiling of 6 per cent on remittable inter­ est on 180-day import credits was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G H A NA August 15. The fixed rate for sterling of N0 1 = <£ stg. 0.41 was maintained. As a result, the new cedi began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar from the previous level of N0 1 = US$0 .98. surcharges of 5, 10, 25, 40, and 75 per cent, respec­ tively, when imported under specific license; and the eleventh schedule listed items on the restricted list with a surcharge of 40 per cent. August 27. Notice to Importers N o. 369 further extended the scope of the ten open general licenses with effect from Ju ly 27, 1971. At the same time, about 60 items were removed from the list of restricted imports and placed on a banned import list. The scope of the restricted list was somewhat reduced. September 10. Under the provisions of A ct 343, the Minister of Finance revoked the previous schedules of import surcharges, replacing them with new schedules encompassing a larger number of items. Goods were classified into eleven categories. Items listed on the first four schedules were subject to surcharges of 5, 10, 25, and 40 per cent; in practice, the lists corresponded to open general licenses Nos. 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively. The fifth schedule consisted of items subject to specific or ad valorem rates from 5 per cent to 150 per cent when imported under open general license; most items on open general license N o. 9 were included in this category. Schedules V I -X consisted of items subject to September 15. Tourists visiting Ghana became entitled to a bonus of 25 per cent when cashing foreign currency or travelers checks for new cedis. November 4. The new cedi ceased to be pegged to sterling, the fixed rate for which had been N0 1 = <£ stg. 0.41. The par value in terms of gold was main­ tained. The relationship of N0 1 = US$0.98 that existed pr ior to August 15 was restored. December 27. The par value was changed from 0.870897 gram of fine gold to 0.450182 gram of fine gold per new cedi. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became N0 1 = US$0 .55. Ghana informed the Fund that it was availing itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. December 27. The temporary import surcharges, the 10 to 25 per cent tax on remittances for invisibles, the 25 per cent bonus on foreign currencies and travelers checks cashed by tourists, and the 25 per cent export bonus scheme were abolished. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold. A central rate of Dr 30 = US$1 has been established, and Greece avails itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. The official rates maintained by the Bank of Greece (the central bank) are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per U S $ 1 .1 Rates for other currencies are determined daily on the basis of the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy and the Currency C om­ mittee. Exchange control po l icy is made by the Currency Committee, the Credit Committee, and the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee, and import po l icy is made by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy and, in some cases, require the pr ior approval of the competent ministry. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements relating to permitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. A ll other exchange payments require the approval of the Bank of Greece. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries w i th which Greece has bilateral payments agreements2 are made through controlled accounts, with the U. S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with a ll other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open w i th Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, w i th authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with 1 In addition to the U S. dollar, the Bank of Greece maintains offi­ cial quotations for Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. It also quotes banknote rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a dormant bilateral account for settlement with Chile of nitrate imports. 182 transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Fore ign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. A ny withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con­ vertible foreign exchange for a m in imum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 6% and 8 per cent per annum according to their term. Particular regula­ tions apply to nonresident investors ( inc lud ing Greek nationals permanently residing abroad) enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree N o. 2687 /53 (see sec­ tion on Cap i ta l, be low ). They may establish time deposits, for a m in imum period of six months and w i th a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10 ,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, and pr inc ipal and interest are freely transferable at maturity in the currency of the deposit. A ll drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Fore ign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authori­ ties, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may be trans­ ferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. A ll transfers between blocked accounts require pr ior approval. B locked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, w i th funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the intermediary of a shipping firm established in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 3 per cent per annum for sight deposits, 634-8 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 6% per cent per annum for sav­ ings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into foreign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll other imports, except those of goods on Lists P and P-12 with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment w i ll be made through an authorized bank, require approval. F or most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without pr ior approval, provided that approval is obtained subsequently. The granting of an import approval implies that appropriate foreign exchange w i ll be made available. Apa rt from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import pro­ cedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries participating in the European Monetary Agree­ ment ( E M A) when payment is to be made in a con­ vertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the Un i ted States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U. S. a id; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when pay­ ment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications wh ich have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U. S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of ship­ ment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. F or all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of com­ modities in L ist A (including gold, certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain foodstuffs) and L ist B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on L ist A no licenses are being issued. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agreements. G R E E CE F or purposes of applying regulations concerning pay­ ments for imports and advance deposit requirements, a ll private imports are classified in nine lists (P, P-12, F, F - 5 0 / 1 - 3, and F - 1 0 0 / 1 - 3 ). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against ship­ ping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P and P-12, there being no time limit for List P but a l im it of one year for L ist P-12 which may be extended for a further six months with the permission of the Bank of G reece ). The M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred pay­ ments for imports not included in the P lists. When time drafts are accepted, a personal written undertaking amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the draft is required as a guarantee that the payment w i ll be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F -100 /1 and F - 1 0 0 / 2, further cash deposits of, respectively, 40 per cent and 12 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. F or imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F - 5 0 / 1 -3 and F - 1 0 0 / 1 - 3 .3 Advance deposits are the same for a ll countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. L ist F -50 /1 L i st F - 5 0 /2 L i st F - 5 0 /3 L ist F -100 /1 L i st F - 1 0 0 /2 L i st F -100 /3 Prepayment Security To tal In per cent of invoice value 50 40 15 100 80 30 20 16 6 40 32 12 70 56 21 140 112 42 F or goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import 3 Commodities not included in these Lists, or in Lists A, B, P, P-12, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P, and P-12. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G R E E CE duties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U. S. aid funds, a further deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. A ll deposits must be made w i th the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days (for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under procedure , D. U p on delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F - 5 0 / 1 -3 and F - 1 0 0 / 1 -3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of four months from the date on which they were made for a range of specified imports including fabrics, electrical household appliances, and passenger motor vehicles, and for a period of two months for other imports. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for a ll imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in Lists P and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. F i n al settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in Lists P and P-12. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2 -5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents going abroad for family reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the equivalent of US$200 for one trip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee. The Committee does not grant addi­ tional foreign exchange for tourist exchange but it normally provides foreign exchange for other travel as follows: up to US$1 ,500 a trip for exporters, indus­ trialists, and hotel managers; up to US$350 a trip for other businessmen; up to US$500 a trip for newspaper 184 editors and tourist agents; up to US$800 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and up to US$400 a trip for newspaper reporters. F or medical treatment abroad it provides any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, or up to US$1 ,200 wh ich the patient may take out. It also provides up to US$265 a month for studies in the Un i ted States and Canada and up to US$175 a month for studies in other foreign countries (for postgraduate studies, up to US$310 and US$225, respectively). Persons traveling abroad may take with them a max i­ mum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare a ll domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. N o n­ resident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes declared upon entry, provided that departure is w i th in six months of a r r iva l; export of large amounts or any export after a visit of more than six months is subject to general or specific approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll exports require ind iv idual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative l im i ta t ion. Export proceeds must be sur­ rendered w i th in 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodi­ ties. The M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy may license barter transactions invo lv ing the export of tobacco, certain types of fruit, or wines; such transactions are permitted w i th mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Po land, and the U. S. S. R. In addition, any commodity may, subject to ind iv idual authorization, be exported on a barter basis to A lb an i a, mainland Ch in a, the Republic of Ch in a, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship­ owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. A ny surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. N o n­ resident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents hold- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. A ll other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree N o. 2687 /53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promo­ tion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.4 Under L aw N o. 4171 /61, as amended by Legislative Decree N o. 4256 /62 and by Legislative Decree N o. 916 of July 14, 1971, further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree N o. 4256 /62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legisla­ tion mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law N o. 4171 /61, profits on approved foreign invest­ ments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceed­ ing 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) F or investments made under Leg­ islative Decree N o. 2687 /53 that are not covered by Law N o. 4171 /61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the trans­ fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been re­ patriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256 /62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree N o. 2687 /53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. A l s o, foreign loans approved under 4 This Decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. G R E E CE Legislative Decree N o. 2687 /53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatri­ ation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold v Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins w i ll only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed pr ior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Residents may deal freely, how­ ever, in bu l l ion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license issued by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy; licenses are normally issued to repu­ table importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. G o ld bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, with the exception that gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Committee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1971 January 1. An announcement indicated the allocations up to which the Bank of Greece was authorized to provide foreign exchange for travel, medical treatment, or study abroad; no relaxation or tightening of restric­ tions was involved. January 1. The system of preferential interest rates for credits to export industries was modified. Prefer­ ential credit henceforth was based on the domestic value-added content of exports, instead of, as previously, the proportion of exports to total sales. January 1. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurers became fully transferable. Previously, trans­ ferability was limited to 65 per cent of the amount due. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G R E E CE January 7. The ceiling up to which commercial banks could without the prior approval of the Currency C om­ mittee issue guarantees covering imports payable in convertible currencies was raised from US$75,000 to US$100,000 for each transaction. The ceiling was raised to US$300,000 on June 10. February 22. Commerc ial banks redepositing with the Bank of Greece foreign exchange time deposits received from nonresidents obtained from the Bank of Greece a commission of one half of 1 per cent per annum on the amount concerned. February 22. Banks were freely permitted to use their funds held abroad for loans or guarantees to firms estab­ lished in Greece or abroad. March 3. Improved loan facilities were announced for the acquisition of real estate in Greece by Greek expatriates and Greek nationals temporarily employed abroad or their relatives. March 18. The existing export credit insurance fac i l i­ ties were expanded to include commercial risks. May 11. The preferential credit facilities for exporters were expanded to cover sales of locally produced sup­ plies to ships and aircraft and of materials used in the construction, repair, or rebuilding of ships and aircraft, provided that payment was obtained in foreign exchange. July 8. The M in i s t ry of Coordination announced that banks could not provide credit to finance imports of raw materials and capital equipment unless it was impos­ sible to obtain deferred settlement terms from the for­ eign supplier. August 1. The investment incentive law (No. 4171 /61) was amended and extended for 10 years by Legislative Decree N o. 916 of July 14, 1971. The m in imum paid-up capital requirement for domestic and foreign companies seeking benefits under it was raised from Dr 60 m i l l ion to Dr 90 m i l l ion. The m in imum amount of investments for which special facilities could be negotiated with the Government was raised from Dr 180 m i l l ion to Dr 300 m i l l ion. August 16. Sales by the banking system of foreign currencies other than U. S. dollars were suspended; pur­ chases of a ll foreign currencies remained permitted. A ll exchange transactions took place at August 13 rates. The general permission to authorized banks for the purchase of foreign banknotes from residents and non­ residents was restricted to the equivalent of Dr 15,000 for each transaction. August 17. Greek seamen and workers abroad could deposit foreign currency notes in a foreign currency savings account within one year from the date of entry, instead of six months as required previously. August 23. The central bank and the commercial banks resumed sales of a ll foreign currencies. The cen­ tral bank maintained the official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar at Dr 29.90 and Dr 30.10, respec­ tively, per U S $ 1. August 25. The Foreign Trade Counc il ceased to function. September 13. Commerc ial banks required the prior approval of the Bank of Greece to accept nonresident time deposits in foreign currencies other than U. S. do l­ lars, deutsche mark, and Swiss francs. The interest rates payable on nonresident time deposits were changed to 7-8 per cent for U. S. dollars, 6-7 per cent for deutsche mark, and 5-6 per cent for Swiss francs; previously, the range of 7-8 per cent was applicable to all foreign currencies. November 1. The seventh reduction in import duties in accordance with the Treaty of Association with the E EC took place. November 1. The advance deposit requirements were reduced for the goods on Lists F - 5 0 /3 and F - 1 0 0 / 3. November 2. The rates of interest payable on nonresi­ dent time deposits were a ll raised to a range of 6% per cent (for 3 to 6 months' deposits) to 8 per cent (for deposits of 24 months and ove r ), and were again appli­ cable to a ll foreign currencies. The prior approval of the Bank of Greece no longer was required for deposits in currencies other than U. S. dollars, deutsche mark, and Swiss francs. November 5. Imports of secondhand automobiles were suspended. December 20. A central rate of Dr 30 = US$1 was established. Greece would avail itself of wider margins of up to 214 per cent. The central bank maintained its existing buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar, however, at Dr 29.90 and Dr 30.10 per U S $ 1. December 22. The Swedish krona was officially quoted. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is Q 1.00 = U S $ 1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per U S $ 1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies 1 on the basis of their rates in the New Yo rk market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the F u nd that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direc­ tion of the Monetary Boa rd. Foreign exchange transac­ tions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of author­ ized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabiliza­ tion Fund maintained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency A ll exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Cos ta R i c a, El Salvador, Honduras, and N icaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearing­ house established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central Ame r ican countries to travelers w i th in the area, up to the equivalent of Q 2,500 a trip. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poultry, wheat flour, and used trucks and trailers. Imports of coffee beans, coffee plants, and soluble coffee are prohibited. W i th in 8 days after confirmation, importers must register with the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports originating from Central Am e r i­ can countries and included in the General Treaty for Central Ame r ican Econom ic Integration are exempt from this requirement.) Importers must effect their registered imports during the 90-day validity of the registration. A ll remittances abroad to pay for imports require Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submission of the registration form and the shipping documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for speci­ fied imports from Central Ame r ican countries. Payments for imports which have to be fully or partially prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the nature of the transaction; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of mer­ chandise on consignment, must present the original shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from customs must be obtained from the Exchange Department or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central Ame r ican countries and included in the General Treaty for Central Amer ican Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The customs officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. F or the specified imports from Central Ame r ican countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Department, giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertook to pay in the future. If these forms are completed at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported from countries with which Guatemala has an unfavorable trade balance. On December 31, 1971, this surcharge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.2 This sur­ charge is waived if the goods are transported in Guate­ malan ships. Moreover, a ll imports from other areas wh ich are included in the agreed uniform tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for 2 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Yugo­ slavia, and Zaire. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G U A T E M A LA Central Ame r ican Econom ic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Imports originating outside the Central Ame r ican Common Market or in Honduras are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles A ll transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa R i c a, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require authorization by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for cur­ rent invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to verify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely, as is the repayment of registered loans. F or certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. Remittances of rents, interest, royalties, commissions, and professional fees are subject to a tax of 11 per cent and remittances of profits and dividends to a tax of 10 per cent. There is an exchange allowance equivalent to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person a trip for travel abroad by residents. A ll international air passages (with the exception of those for travel within Central Ame r ica) are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for family maintenance is Q 250 a person a month, up to a maximum of Q 1,000 a month for each family. In addi­ tion, remittances of income from property or funds invested in Guatemala (other than foreign investment) and remittances of pensions, annuities, etc., are author­ ized up to Q 250 a month a person, up to Q 1,000 a month for each beneficiary family. Foreign technical personnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their entire family or part of their family resides abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently may, subject to ind i­ vidual approval, transfer their savings up to the full amount of their earnings in Guatemala. L im i ts are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is not prohibited; however, Guatemalan banknotes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa R i c a, El Sal­ vador, Honduras, or Nicaragua. F or these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U. S. dollars up to the following l im i ts: Costa R i c a, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. 188 Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central Ame r ican countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Cen tral Ame r ican Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evi­ dence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a full description of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertak­ ing to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank w i th in a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Cer ta in export industries financed with foreign loans, however, may be permitted under the terms of specific foreign exchange agreements with the Monetary Board to retain a portion of export proceeds abroad to cover amortization of the loans. Exports of meat to the Un i ted States are subject to regulation by the M in i s t ry of Economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of Guatemalan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital A ll foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. A ll investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of pri­ vate housing in Guatemala requires the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified overall amount a year, it must meet certain minimum quality and financing standards, and the sales value of a housing unit must not exceed Q 6,000. A ll outgoing capital payments require ex­ change licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amortization of foreign loans. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capi­ tal are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, com­ mercial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa R ica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents must sell to the Bank of Guatemala any gold in their possession. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guate­ mala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Mone­ tary Board. The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to pur­ chase a ll gold offered to it. The Bank also sells domestic and imported gold to domestic artistic and industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. G o ld is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1971 January 1. Imports from Honduras became subject to the external customs tariff of the Central Ame r ican Common Market and to the Pro tocol of San Jose import surcharge. May 24. Decree N o. 41-71 established that imports receiving customs duty concessions had to be trans­ ported by Guatemalan sea or air transport companies, where possible. Goods of Central Ame r ican origin were exempt. June 9. The Na t ional Export Promotion Center (Guatexpro) was established to provide financial and G U A T E M A LA technical assistance for exports to countries outside the Central Amer ican Common Ma rke t. June 19. Imports from Costa R i ca were suspended. The suspension was lifted on June 24. June 30. Imports of coffee plants and coffee beans were prohibited. August 16. Exchange transactions were suspended. August 17. Exchange transactions in U. S. dollars, Central Amer ican currencies, and Mex ican pesos were resumed. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at Q 1.00 = U S $ 1, and the official buying and selling rates of Q 1.00 and Q 1.01 were also main­ tained. September 1. Exchange transactions in other foreign currencies were resumed. Commercial banks were obliged to consult the central bank on the exchange rates to be applied in a ll transactions in excess of Q 50,000. (This directive was continued in force into 1972.) December 21. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at Q 1.00 = US $ 1, and the official buy­ ing and selling rates of Q 1.00 and Q 1.01 were also maintained. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Gu inea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency (introduced on M a r ch 1, 1960) is the Guinean Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 44.44 = 1 F rench franc. On December 31, 1971 the rate main­ tained by Gu inea for the U. S. dollar was GF 246.853 = US$1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were GF 246 and GF 272 per U S $ 1, respectively.1 These rates apply to a ll types of trans­ actions and include a bank commission. C lear ing account transactions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 247 per U S $ 1. The buying rate for travelers checks is GF 243 per U S $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen tral Bank of the Republic of Gu inea; this authority has been delegated to the Exchange Con t rol Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. The Minister of F inanc ial Affairs is charged with supervision over the Central Bank. A ll settlements with foreign countries, inc lud ing payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Con t rol Office. Import and export licenses are issued, w i th in the framework of an annual program, by the M in i s t ry of Commerce (State Secretariat of Foreign Trade) after applications have been screened by the Na t ional Licens­ ing Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.2 Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: N o n­ resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Gu inean Francs. The 1 On January 1, 1972 the U. S. dollar rate became GF 227.36 = US$1. The new rate for clearing dollars was GF 227 per US$1. The official buying and selling rates for banknotes were fixed at GF 209 and GF 246 per US$1, and the buying rate for travelers checks at GF 207 per US$1. 2 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Ghana, Hungary, Lebanon, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. There is also a compensation arrangement with a private firm established in Switzer­ land. Some of the agreements are inoperative. 3 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, C FA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Sudanese pounds, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and Zai'rian zaires. 190 opening of a nonresident account is subject to the pr ior approval of the Exchange Con t rol Office. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports, other than those under the Seven-Year P lan, require ind iv idual licenses, wh ich are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce, after applications have been screened and approved by the Na t ional Licensing Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Con t rol Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Most imports into Gu inea are made w i th in the frame­ work of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the M in i s t ry of Commerce on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibilities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the Na t ional L icens ing C om­ mission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import pro­ gram. These are goods for wh ich foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made by foreign concession holders (the F r ia Company and the Sifra Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Seven- Y e ar P lan. A ll commercial imports other than those by the F r ia Company and the Sifra Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in the various types of commerce. A ll commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the F r ia Company. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Con t rol Office, irrespective of the country to wh ich the payment is to be made. Payments for freight and insurance in connection w i th imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insur­ ance w i th companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each application is considered indi­ vidually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on official missions are per­ mitted an allowance of GF 3,500 a day. P i lgr ims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GF 190,000 to pay for fares connected with the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is sub­ mitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medi­ cal care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the pay­ ment in Gu inea of a ll fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether ch i ld or adult. F or officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 40,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be trans­ ferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 for each kilogram of pineapples exported, GF 3 for each k i lo­ gram of bananas exported, and GF 2 for each k i l o­ gram of citrus fruit exported. Expatriate workers em­ ployed by the public sector in Gu inea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Gu inean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The M in i s t ry of Commerce establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Licensing Commission. A ll exports require ind iv idual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic con­ sumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the follow­ ing commodities: w i ld animals (dead or a l ive ), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the pro­ ceeds immediately after they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the F r ia C om­ pany are made by three state enterprises: Prominex, Proseco, and Frutex. Fore ign planters are granted spe­ cial transfer privileges related to the quantity of pine­ apples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). A ll export proceeds must be surrendered; however, the F r ia Company and the Sifra Company are allowed to retain 66% per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of their export earnings. G U I N EA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must in p r in­ ciple be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. N o n­ resident travelers may repurchase and re-export the for­ eign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital A ll capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment L aw (Law N o. 5 0 / A N / 6 2) of A p r il 5, 1962, wh ich replaced a more restrictive one of M ay 1960, provides guarantees against the nation­ alization of foreign investments in the industrial and m in ing sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such invest­ ments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in wh ich at least GF 150 m i l l ion is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long- term investments of particular importance to the Gu inean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to nego­ tiations w i th in the terms of this law. Gold Gu inea has issued four commemorative gold coins wh ich are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in Gu inea for numismatic pur­ poses. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus­ t r ial users. Changes during 1971 January 3. The bilateral payments agreement w i th Yugos lav ia was terminated. May 15. The bilateral payments agreement w i th M a li was terminated. August 23. The exchange rates for the U. S. dollar and the F rench franc were maintained at GF 246.853 = US$1 and GF 44.44 = F 1. December 21. The gold parity of the Gu inean franc 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G U I N EA w as m a i n t a i n e d. T he ex ch ange ra te f or the F r e n ch f r a nc r em a i n ed GF 4 4 . 44 = F 1. On th is ba s is the effective p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip f or the U. S. d o l l ar b e c ame G F 2 2 7 . 3 65 = U S $ 1, b ut the ra te q u o t ed f or the U . S. d o l l ar w as n ot c h a n g ed u n t il J a n u a ry 1, 1 9 7 2, w h en it was fixed at GF 2 2 7 . 36 per U S $ 1. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G U Y A NA Exchange Rate System T he p ar v a l ue is 0 . 4 4 4 3 35 g r am of fine g o ld p er G u y a na D o l l a r. A c e n t r al ra te of G $ 5 . 2 1 14 p er p o u nd s t e r l i ng ( e q u i v a l e nt to G $2 = U S $ 1) has b e en es tab­ l i s h e d, a nd G u y a na av a i ls i t s e lf of w i d er m a r g i ns of up to Ihi p er cen t. T he i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n cy is s t e r l i n g. T he c e n t r al b a nk n o r m a l ly dea ls o n ly in C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, E a st C a r i b b e an d o l l a r s, J am a i ca d o l l a r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, T r i n i d ad a nd T o b a go d o l l a r s, a nd U. S. d o l l a r s. On D e c em b er 3 1, 1 9 7 1, i ts b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng ra tes f or the U. S. d o l l ar w e re G $ 2 . 0 3 9 99 a nd G $ 2 . 0 5 0 6 2, a nd those f or s t e r l i ng w e re G $ 5 . 2 0 81 a nd G $ 5 . 2 3 4 2. In i ts d e a l ings in s t e r l i ng w i th c o m m e r c i al b a n k s, the B a nk of G u y a na cha rges a c omm i s s i on of VIQ of 1 p er cent on i n w a rd t ran s fe rs a nd Vie of 1 p er cent on o u tw a rd transfers (% of 1 p er cen t, b u y i ng a nd s e l l i n g, f or E a st C a r i b b e an d o l l a r s, J am a i ca d o l l a r s, a nd T r i n i d ad a nd T o b a go d o l l a r s ). T he c omm e r c i al b a n k s' cha rges f or s t e r l i n g, U. S. d o l l a r s, a nd C a n a d i an d o l l a rs are %6 of 1 p er c ent b u y i ng a nd % of 1 p er c ent s e l l i n g. T h e ir b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates f or E a st C a r i b b e an d o l l a r s, J am a i ca d o l l a r s, a nd T r i n i d ad a nd T o b a go d o l l a rs are % p er cent e i ther side of p a r i t y. T he c o m m e r c i al b a n ks base the ra tes f or c u r r e n c i es o t h er t h an s t e r l i n g, E a st C a r i b b e an d o l l a r s, T r i n i d ad a nd T o b a go d o l l a r s, a nd J am a i ca d o l l a rs on the c e n t r al b a n k 's rates f or s t e r l i ng a nd the c u r r e nt L o n d on m a r k et ra tes. G u y a na f o r m a l ly a c c ep t ed the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t i­ c le V I I I, Sec t ions 2, 3, a nd 4, of the F u nd A g r e em e n t, as f r om D e c em b er 2 7, 1966. Administration of Control E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol a u t h o r i ty is ves ted in the M i n i s t er of F i n a n c e, w ho has en t ru s ted i ts a dm i n i s t r a t i on to the B a nk of G u y a n a. A u t h o r i ty f or a p p r o v i ng n o r m al im p o rt p a ym e n ts a nd p r o v i d i ng a l l o c a t i o ns of f o r e i gn ex ch ange f or o th er c u r r e nt p aym e n ts is de lega ted to the b a n ks a u t h o r i z ed f or t h is p u r p o s e; c e r t a in p a ym e n ts in respect of c u r r e nt i n v i s i b l es of a p e r s o n al n a tu r e, h ow e v e r, r e q u i re the a p p r o v al of the B a nk of G u y a n a. Im p o rt a nd e x p o rt l i c e n s i ng g en e r a l ly is the r e s p o n s i­ b i l i ty of the M i n i s t ry of T r a d e; im p o r ts f r om C M EA coun t r i es a nd m a i n l a nd C h i na as w e ll as a ll im p o r ts of spec i f ied goods are m a de o n ly by the E x t e r n al T r a de B u r e a u, a d ep a r tm ent of the M i n i s t ry of T r a d e. Prescription of Currency G u y a na is a m em b er of the S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd m a i n­ ta ins p r e s c r i p t i on of c u r r e n cy r equ i r em en ts b r o a d ly s im i l ar to those of the U n i t ed K i n g d o m .1 E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol app l i es to a ll c o u n t r i e s, h ow e v e r. A ll c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an the G u y a na d o l l ar a re c o n s i d e r ed f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i e s. A u t h o r i z ed se t t lemen ts w i th res iden ts of 1 Guyana's exchange control regulations define the Sterling A r ea as excluding Rhodesia. o t h er pa r ts of the S t e r l i ng A r ea m ay be m a de in a ny S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y. A u t h o r i z ed p aym en t s, i n c l u d i ng p aym en ts f or im p o r t s, by res iden ts of G u y a na to r e s i­ dents of coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o ther t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be m a de in a ny n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r­ r e n c y, in s t e r l i ng to the c r e d it of an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt in any o ther p a rt of the S t e r l i ng A r e a, or in G u y a na d o l l a rs to the c r e d it of an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt in G u y a n a. R e c e i p ts f r om c o u n t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o ther t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be o b t a i n ed in any n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n cy ( in a ny l i s t ed spec i f ied c u r r e n cy 2 f or e x p o rt p ro c e ed s) or in s t e r l i ng or G u y a na d o l l a rs f r om an E x t e r n al ( N o n - S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t. Nonresident Accounts T h e re are three ca tego r ies of accoun ts f or pe r sons w ho a re n ot res iden ts of G u y a n a: E x t e r n al (S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t s, E x t e r n al (N o n - S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t s, a nd B l o c k ed A c c o u n t s. External (Sterling Area) Accounts m ay be op en ed, w i th exchange c o n t r ol a p p r o v a l, f or res iden ts of S t e r l i ng A r ea coun t r i es o ther t h an G u y a n a. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a ll a u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts by res iden ts of G u y a na to o th er S t e r l i ng A r ea coun t r i es a nd w i th t rans fe rs f r om o th er E x t e r n al A c c o u n t s. O t h er c red i ts r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed for p aym en ts to res iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r ea ( i n c l u d i ng G u y a n a) f or any p u r p o s e; f or t rans fe rs to o ther E x t e r n al ( S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n ts in G u y a n a; a nd f or w i t h d r aw a ls by the a c c o u nt h o l d er w h i le he is in G u y a n a. O t h er deb i ts r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts m ay be op en ed, w i th ex ch ange c o n t r ol a p p r o v a l, f or non re s iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r e a. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a ll a u t h o r i z ed p a ym e n ts by res iden ts of G u y a na to non re s iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd w i th t ran s fe rs f r om o ther E x t e r n al ( N o n - S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t s; o ther c r e d i ts r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or p aym en ts f or a ny pu rpo se to res iden ts of any c o u n t r y, f or transfers to o th er E x t e r n al ( N o n - S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t s, or to E x t e r n al ( S t e r l i ng A r e a) A c c o u n t s, a nd f or w i t h d r aw a ls by the a c c o u nt h o l d er w h i le he is in G u y a n a; o ther deb i ts r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. Blocked Accounts are c r e d i t ed w i th funds that are not p l a c ed at the free d i s p o s al of non r e s id en ts (e .g ., c a p i t al p r o c e e d s ). Th e se a c coun ts m ay be d eb i t ed f or c e r t a in a u t h o r i z ed p a ym e n t s, i n c l u d i ng the pu r ch a se of a p p r o v ed secu r i t ie s. Imports and Import Payments A ll im p o r ts f r om P o r t u g a l, R h o d e s i a, a nd S o u th 3 Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G U Y A NA A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited; for some goods, the prohibition is not applicable when they originate in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association ( C A R I F T A ) .3 Imports subject to individual licensing are specified in a "negative l is t"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vege­ tables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, certain chemicals, detergents, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain-milling machinery, radios, and appliances. The granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current po l icy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to a ll countries of origin except A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, N o r th Ko rea, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R .; import quotas for commodities originating in these countries are based on the value of imports from them in 1964. The External Trade Bureau, a depart­ ment of the M in is t ry of Trade, has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities from a ll sources and over a ll imports from the state trading countries mentioned. F or certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documen­ tary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceeding G$2 .40. Imports of a ll commodities not exempt from import duty are subject to a defense levy of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to a ll countries require approval, wh ich, except for amounts in excess of the standard allocation for tourism, is given freely, pro­ vided that no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for tourist travel abroad (G $ 6 6 6 ) ,4 for education at schools abroad (G$3 ,360 for each c h i l d ), for education at universities and comparable institutions (G$4 ,800 for each student), and for family maintenance (G$4 ,800 for each f am i ly ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$3 a person. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, Sterling A r ea or non-Sterling A r ea currency notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. 3 On January 1, 1972, imports of a number of foodstuffs, beer and wines, and certain other commodities were prohibited from all non- CAR IFTA sources. Certain other goods, including newsprint, were made subject to specific license when originating outside CAR IFTA. 4 This allocation may be accumulated up to G$2,000 for any three- year period. 194 Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exports of rice may only be made by the Guyana R ice Marke t ing Boa rd. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be com­ pleted only for exports exceeding G$2 ,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Residents as we ll as nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea must obtain "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that wou ld benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries w i th it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital increments, may be repatriated in fu ll in the currency of the original investment. The export of capital by residents is not normally per­ mitted. L is ted specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Gold Residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1971 February 12. Imports of organic and inorganic chemicals and of pharmaceuticals and medicinal drugs were placed under the control of the Ex ternal Trade Bureau. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G U Y A NA August 16. The fixed relationship between the Guyana dollar and the pound sterling of G $ 4 . 8 0 = < £1 remained unchanged. As a result, the Guyana dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U . S. dollar, the parity rate for which had been G$2 = U S $ 1. The central bank continued to deal at pre-August 15 rates in East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and T r in idad and Tobago dollars. November 25. The Cap i tal Issues (Con tro l) A c t, 1971 was enacted. It defined as an alien company any Guyana company having an alien director on its board. December 15. The Exchange Con trol (Scheduled Territories) Order, 1971 came into effect. It made Guyana the only scheduled territory for purposes of the exchange control laws and thus extended exchange control to the rest of the Sterling A r e a. December 15. The Exchange Con t rol (Amendment) (No. 2) A c t, 1971 made the pound sterling and all other Sterling A r ea currencies except the Guyana dollar foreign currencies. December 15. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. December 22. A central rate of G$5.2114 per pound sterling (equivalent to G$2 = US$1) was established. Guyana would avail itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. Sterling remained the intervention cur­ rency. December 22. The Bank of Guyana announced that it would henceforth buy and sell sterling at G$5.2081 and G$5 .2342. The rates for the U . S. dollar and the Canadian dollar would continue to be determined by applying the rates for sterling to the daily London rates for these currencies against sterling. December 23. The pound sterling was designated as a specified currency by the Exchange Con t rol (Speci­ fied Currency) Order, 1971. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Ha i t ian Gourde. The central rate is G 5.00 = U S $ 1, and H a i ti does not avail itself of wider margins. Th is rate is applicable to a ll transactions. The intervention currency is the U. S. dollar. In addition to the gourde, the U. S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, H a i ti notified the F u nd that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the Na t ional Bank and are implemented by that Bank and two commercial banks, the only other banks operating in the exchange field. The banks review certain requests for foreign exchange to ascertain that no unauthorized capital transfers are involved. Imports and Import Payments A l though the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, import licenses are not required. Imports from member countries of the Coun c il for Mu tu al Econom ic Assistance and Japan, however, require pr ior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. The M in is t ry 's pr ior authori­ zation is also required for imports from any source of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments rea­ sons. The domestic marketing of certain imports is con­ trolled by the State Tobacco Monopo ly. Importers opening letters of credit at the Na t ional Bank are usu­ ally required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain im­ ports are subject, in addition to the applicable import duty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value; goods subject to the 4 per cent or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers must also pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports except coffee require prior authorization from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. Coffee exports are shipped through the Federation of Ha i t ian Coffee Exporters. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are restricted to maintain compliance with quality standards. G o ld coins, bu l l ion, etc., may be exported only by the Na t ional Bank of the Republic of H a i t i. The proceeds of exports are not sub­ ject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "eco­ nomic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the cus­ 196 toms invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from inv is i­ bles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U. S. banknotes in denomina­ tions of over $20. Capital Except in special circumstances, capital transfers abroad are not permitted. Imports of capital may, how­ ever, be made freely. Residents may hold capital assets abroad in any form other than gold and bank deposits. Foreign investment in H a i ti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of M a r ch 13, 1963 and requires gov­ ernment approval. Permission is not usually granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in H a i ti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a m in i­ mum of 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of H a i t i. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in H a i ti for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of a law of August 31, 1942, the Na t ional Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the form of coins, mineral, dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Na t ional Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authoriza­ tion by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry and the M in is t ry of Finance as well as an endorsement by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles con­ taining a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. F ive gold coins were issued in 1967 and sold mostly to nonresidents; these coins are legal tender. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year, the remaining restrictions on pay­ ments and transfers for current international transactions were abolished. August 23. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at G 5.00 = U S $ 1. December 23. A central rate of G 5.00 = US$1 was established. H a i ti did not avail itself of wider margins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per H o n- duran Lemp i ra. The central rate is L 2.00 = US $ 1, and Honduras has not availed itself of wider margins. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per U S $ 1. Banknotes and coins in Costa R ican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salva­ doran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stat­ ing how the exchange w i ll be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement, beginning on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Pay­ ments to Costa R i c a, El Salvador, Guatemala, and N i c a­ ragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensa­ tion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay­ ments to Mex ico may also be settled in Honduran lem­ piras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange w i ll be used. Certain imports require pr ior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms, and certain other imports are subject to this requirement irrespective of the terms of payment. Most imports of Japanese origin are subject to import surcharges of 50 per cent or 100 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Exports of coffee are super­ vised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Cap i tal payments are not subject to exchange control. However, by virtue of Decree N o. 73 of October 30, 1969, the authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance is required for a ll activities imp ly ing the trans­ fer abroad of capital. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Central Bank is required to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or other purposes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in H o n­ duras for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author­ ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. A ll locally pro­ duced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commerc ial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1971 January 1. Decree N o. 97 of December 31, 1970, made the external customs tariff of the Central Am e r i­ can Common Market applicable to imports of most commodities from all sources. The 30 per cent import surcharge imposed under the Protocol of San Jose on imports from outside the Central Amer ican Common Market was abolished, as was the consumption tax of 10 per cent or 20 per cent. January 14. Honduras ceased to participate fully in the Central Ame r ican Common Marke t. January 16. Decision N o. 23 of the President of the Republic introduced a system comprising import con­ trols, controls over borrowing abroad, and registration of export proceeds. A ll importers and exporters had to be registered. In principle, imports had to be made on a cash basis, but goods could also be imported on credit terms if foreign credit was obtained. A ll foreign credit, however, became subject to prior approval of the Central 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution H O N D U R AS Bank, which for imports granted its approval only for specified essential goods. Documentary evidence that the goods had been paid for was required for customs clear­ ance of imports. January 16. Resolution N o. 1 of the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank was issued and entered into force. It contained two commodity lists. Goods on L ist I required the pr ior approval of the Cen­ tral Bank when imported on credit terms but not when imported on cash-against-documents terms. Goods on L ist II required such prior approval regardless of the terms of payment. Commodities not included in either list could be imported without Central Bank approval, provided payment was at sight. The Resolution also prescribed prior Central Bank approval for any borrow­ ing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons; this would be granted only for imports of L i st I and L ist II goods or for the financing of productive activities. March 31. Add i t ional commodities were included in Lists I and II by virtue of Resolution N o. 2 of Febru­ ary 2, 1971. The Resolution also provided that imports of L i st II goods would not be permitted if domestic pro­ duction was adequate. March 31. Resolution N o. 3 of February 25, 1971 came into force. It provided a documentation facility for specified large exporters using special financing systems for their imports of equipment, raw materials, and intermediate products. August 23. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at L 2.00 and L 2.02 per U S $ 1, respectively. The Cen tral Bank discontinued transactions in other currencies. October 14. Most imports of Japanese or ig in became subject to customs surcharges of 50 per cent or 100 per cent. December 21. A central rate of L 2 = US$1 was established. Honduras d id not avail itself of wider margins. 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong K o ng Do l l a r. Sterling is the intervention currency and rates for sterling are maintained within 1 per cent of the effective parity relationship to sterling. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates. On December 31, 1971, rates in the official market were H K$ 14.530 buying, and HK $ 1 4 . 6 14 sell­ ing, per «£ stg. 1, or HK $ 5 . 6 64 buying, and HK $ 5 . 7 32 selling, per U S $ 1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$5 .7075 buying, and HK $ 5 . 7 15 selling, per U S $ 1. The official market rates are those of author­ ized banks, based on the sterling-Hong K o ng dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the H o ng K o ng Exchange Fund) and the sterling- foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to a ll transactions in Hong K o ng dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U. S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring or ig in, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the F inanc ial Secretary of the Co lony. Some 50 banks are authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the D irec tor of C om­ merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Co lony of Hong K o ng is part of the Sterling A r e a, and a ll settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the cur­ rency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the following paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling A r ea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency. Licenses are required, however, for a ll payments made from H o ng K o ng to, or received in Hong K o ng from, residents of other parts of the Sterling A r e a, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the fo l low ing: (1) bona fide trade between Hong K o ng and other Sterling A r ea territories; (2) payments be­ tween authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling A r ea for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an authorized bank or for the settlement of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong K o ng when the payments are for bona fide family remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK $ 8 , 0 0 0; and (4) other payments not exceeding <£500 or the equivalent in other Sterling A r ea currencies. Payment in Hong K o ng dollars for exports to main­ land Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, and Macao is per­ mitted; imports from these territories may be paid for in Hong K o ng dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The pro­ ceeds of exports to a ll other countries outside the Sterling A r ea must be received in Hong K o ng dollars from an External Accoun t, in sterling from an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling A r e a, in a foreign currency emanating from outside Hong K o ng and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong K o ng dollars (the foreign currency must be sur­ rendered to an authorized bank ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling A r e a. How­ ever, U. S. dollar proceeds of exports to countries in No r th Ame r ica or L a t in Ame r ica of goods originating in mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, Hong K o n g, or Macao may be sold in the free market. Payment for imports from countries outside the Sterling A r ea (except mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, and Macao, as noted above) may be made by crediting sterling or Hong K o ng dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. F or merchanting transactions by Hong K o ng firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling A rea, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling A r ea currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming payment is received in a Sterling A r ea cur­ rency from an External Account or in a foreign cur­ rency from outside Hong K o ng that is freely exchange­ able for sterling or Hong K o ng dollars. Subject to cer­ tain requirements, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied with, authorized banks may, on application by merchants in Hong K o ng undertaking a transaction in goods for their own account, make pay­ ments to nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling A r ea of goods originating outside the Sterling A r e a. Such pay­ ments may be made in sterling or Hong K o ng dollars to an External Account or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to spe­ c ial regulations. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea (their accounts being treated in the same manner 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution H O NG K O NG as accounts of residents of Hong K o n g ), those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling A r ea (External Accoun t s ), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling A r e a. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling A r ea are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn for the purpose of making any payment outside Hong K o n g .1 The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling A r ea are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments from residents of the Sterling A r e a, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for gold, diamonds, and certain dutiable or dangerous commodities, imports are free of license. If related shipping documents are presented, the author­ ized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling A r ea for imports from the Sterling A r e a, and to residents of other countries for ind iv idual shipments not exceeding <£ 10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from N o r th Am e r i ca or L a t in Am e r i ca for local con­ sumption or for re-export to mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, or Macao, the importer must sur­ render to an authorized bank U. S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports from mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong K o ng dollars (but not to the credit of an External A c c o u n t ), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for pr ior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, pay­ ment is required in advance of shipment, and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of currency requirements; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export; and (3) a ll imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding <£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling A r ea currencies, to other parts of the Sterling A r ea do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a, but not to N o r th Ame r ica and La t in Ame r ica, for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange control form is required when the payment does not exceed <£100 or the equivalent). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is normally granted, but a ll payments to N o r th Am e r i ca and L a t in Am e r i ca are usually made through the free market. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for residents (for exchange control purposes) of H o ng K o ng travel­ ing to countries outside the Sterling A r ea or beyond Macao is . £ 3 00 or the equivalent for each ind iv idual journey. App l ica t ions for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control authorities. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong K o ng dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold and certain stra­ tegic goods are subject to restrictive licensing; diamonds, currency notes (except for personal travel expenditure), and textiles are also subject to licensing, the latter because of a number of bilateral agreements with spe­ cified countries under wh ich the export of certain tex­ tiles is restricted. A ll exports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Industry, and for exports to countries other than the Sterling A r e a, N o r th Ame r­ ica, La t in Am e r i c a, mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, and Macao, the declaration must show how the export proceeds w i ll be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance w i th the prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange con­ trol authorities. The proceeds of exports to N o r th Amer­ ica and L a t in Am e r i ca of goods originating in mainland Ch ina, the Republic of Ch ina, Hong K o n g, or Macao are, however, freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding <£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling A r ea currencies, from other parts of the Sterling A r ea require permission. Fore ign currency received for invisibles from outside the Sterling A r ea is freely disposable, except where freight and insurance payments form part of an export contract, when the export proceeds themselves must be surrendered. 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control authorities for special per­ mission to open an External Account. i2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £ 1 0 , 0 00 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. Capital Licenses for transfers abroad of capital at the official rate are granted only for a few approved transactions or if the equivalent in U. S. dollars has been sold to an 2 00 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized exchange bank. Exchange for the repatria­ tion of foreign capital is normally provided at the official market rate if prior exchange control approval for the investment has been given. Transfers of capital through the free market, however, may be made freely to any country outside the Sterling A rea. Licenses are required for a ll receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling A r ea wh ich exceed . £ 5 00 or the equivalent in other Sterling A r ea currencies; these licenses are granted for a ll bona fide transactions between Hong K o ng and other parts of the Sterling Area. Gold There is a free market for gold in which nonresidents who are not resident in Sterling A r ea countries may freely deal among themselves in bars and coins; settle­ ments must take place in Hong K o ng dollars or U. S. dollars through the free exchange market. Dealings in this market between Hong K o ng residents also are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than personal jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses endorsed by the exchange control authorities and issued by the D irec tor of Commerce and Industry. Imports and exports of bu l l ion are not permitted, but trans­ shipment to legitimate destinations is permitted. Com­ mercial imports and exports of finished jewelry are also H O NG K O NG normally allowed. Unless an import license has been granted, residents other than the monetary authorities are not permitted to purchase gold outside Hong K o n g; export licenses are granted only for gold, other than jewelry, in transit. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong K o ng but not outside. Changes during 1971 April. The list of countries to wh ich exports could be made without surrendering the foreign currency pro­ ceeds was extended from the dollar area to include a ll countries in No r th Ame r ica and La t in Ame r ica. C o n­ versely, a ll imports from, and all payments for invisibles to, these countries would not qualify for official exchange. April. The basic exchange allowance for travel out­ side the Sterling A rea was increased from £ 2 50 to £ 3 0 0. August 23. The existing peg on sterling ( H K$ 14.5455 = £ stg. 1) was maintained in the official market. As a result, the Hong K o ng dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market. December 20. The par value in terms of gold and the existing parity for sterling ( H K$ 14.5455 = £ stg. 1) were maintained in the official market. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became HK$5 .58213 = U S $ 1. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I C E L A ND Exchange Rate System T he p ar v a l ue is 0 . 0 1 0 0 9 85 g r am of fine g o ld p er I c e l a n d ic K r o n a. I c e l a nd has e s tab l i shed a c e n t r al ra te of I Kr 8 8 . 00 = U S $1 a nd does not a v a il i t s e lf of w i d er m a r g i n s. T he i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n cy is the U. S. d o l l a r. T he o f f ic ial rates are I Kr 8 7 . 12 b u y i n g, a nd I Kr 8 7 . 42 s e l l i n g, p er U S $ 1. R a t es f or o th er c u r r e n c i es are ba sed on these rates a nd the d o l l ar rates f or the c u r r e n c i es c o n c e r n ed in i n t e r n a t i o n al m a r k e t s. R a t es f or se t t lemen ts t h r o u gh c l e a r i ng accoun ts are f i x e d; the b u y i ng a nd s e l l­ i ng rates m a i n t a i n ed f or the c u r r e n c i es c o n c e r n ed by the C e n t r al B a nk of I c e l a nd d i f fer f r om t h e ir p a r i t i es by 0 .12 p er cent b u y i ng a nd 0 .14 p er cent s e l l i ng for c l e a r­ i ng k r o n u r, a nd the ra te f or c l e a r i ng d o l l a rs is I Kr 8 7 . 90 b u y i ng a nd I Kr 8 8 . 10 s e l l i n g. T he a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks are p e rm i t t ed to c a r ry out ex ch ange t r an s a c t ions am o ng themse lves a nd to engage in a rb i t rage in f o r e i gn m a r k e t s. Administration of Control T he M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e, after c o n s u l t i ng the C e n­ t r al B a n k, has the u l t im a te d e c i s i on on ma t te rs c o n c e r n­ i ng im p o rt a nd e x p o rt l i c e n s i ng a nd on p aym en ts f or i n v i s i b l e s. T he C e n t r al B a nk of I c e l a nd is r e spon s ib le f or the r e g u l a t i on of f o r e i gn ex ch ange t r an s a c t ions a nd of ex ch ange c o n t r o l, i n c l u d i ng c a p i t al c o n t r o l s, a nd f or e n s u r i ng that a ll f o r e i gn ex ch ange due to res iden ts is su r r end e r ed to a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks a nd that s u ch exchange is d i spo s ed of as a u t h o r i z e d. T he two la rgest c omm e r­ c i al b ank s, the N a t i o n al B a nk of I c e l a nd a nd the F i s h­ eries B a n k, are the o n ly a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. T he au tho r­ i z ed b a n ks issue im p o rt a nd ex ch ange l icenses in c o n s u l t a t i on w i th the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e. E x p o rt l icenses are issued by the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r c e. Prescription of Currency I c e l a nd is a m em b er of the S t e r l i ng A r e a. A ll settle­ men ts w i th coun t r i es w i th w h i ch I c e l a nd m a i n t a i ns b i l a t­ e r al p a ym e n ts agreemen ts mu st be m a de e x c l u s i v e ly t h r o u gh c l e a r i ng a c coun t s, d e n om i n a t ed as f o l l o w s: w i th R u m a n ia a nd the U. S. S. R ., in I c e l a n d ic k r o n u r, a nd w i th E a s t e rn G e r m a n y, in U. S. d o l l a r s. As a gene ral r u l e, exchange rece ip ts f r om o ther c o u n t r i es mu st be o b t a i n ed in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s. In p r a c t i c e, settle­ men ts w i th coun t r i es in the d o l l ar a r ea a nd w i th B r a z il are m a de in U. S. d o l l a r s; w i th c o u n t r i es in the S t e r l i ng A r ea a nd some o th er coun t r i e s, in s t e r l i n g; a nd w i th c e r t a in o th er coun t r i e s, in t h e ir re spec t ive c u r r e n c i e s. Nonresident Accounts f r om the sale of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy to a u t h o r i z ed b anks a nd w i th a u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts due to non re s iden ts f r om re s iden t s. B a l a n c es on F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts m ay be u sed f ree ly f or p aym en ts to res iden ts a nd m ay w i t h o ut a l i c en se be c o n v e r t ed i n to the c u r r e n cy of the c o u n t ry of re s idence of the a c c o u nt h o l d e r. T h e se a c coun ts are in p r a c t i ce s e l d om u sed, p aym en ts for i n t e r n a t i o n al t rans­ a c t ions g en e r a l ly b e i ng m a de in U. S. d o l l a r s, s t e r l ing, or o ther c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s. Special Accounts in k r o n ur or f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy m ay be o p e n ed by ag reement w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a n k. T he mo st im p o r t a nt of these accoun ts are those of f o r e i gn b a n ks a nd f o r e i gn i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i e s. T h ey m ay be c r e d i t ed f ree ly, up to c e r t a in l im i t s, w i th a p p r o v ed p a y­ men ts f r om res iden ts. Imports and Import Payments A ll goods n ot i n c l u d ed in the r e s t r i c t ed l i st or subject to state t r a d i ng (see b e l ow) m ay be im p o r t ed f ree ly ( a n d, w i th m i n or ex c ep t ion s, w i t h o ut an im p o rt l i c en s e) f r om any c o u n t r y ;1 about 90 p er cent of t o t al im p o r ts ( 1 9 69 b a s i s) is l i b e r a l i z e d. S ome 30 c omm o d i t i es or g roups of c omm o d i t i es are i n c l u d ed in the r e s t r i c t ed l i st a nd are subject to qu an t i t a t ive r e s t r i c t i o n. S e v en of these c omm o d i t i es are a dm i t t e d, subject to i n d i v i d u al l i c en s e, u n d er g l o b al quo tas that a p p ly to a ll coun t r i es w i th w h i ch I c e l a nd does n ot m a i n t a in b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag r e em en t s .2 T he r em a i n i ng goods on the r e s t r i c t ed l i st are a dm i t t ed f r om the same coun t r i es on the bas is of i n d i v i d u al l icenses i s sued on a d i s c r e t i o n a ry bas is ( "o th er l i c e n s i n g " ). T he p r i n c i p al i tems i n v o l v ed are ga so l ine, gas o i l, a nd fu el o i l; th ey are im p o r t ed m a i n ly f r om the U. S. S. R. A ll goods on the r e s t r i c t ed l i st r e q u i re i n d i­ v i d u al l icenses w h en im p o r t ed f r om b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag reement c o u n t r i e s; l icenses in th is case are in p r i n c i p le i s sued in a c c o r d a n ce w i th b i l a t e r a l ly ag reed quo tas, but in p r a c t i ce th ey are g r an t ed f ree ly u p on a p p l i c a t i on f or g l o b al q u o ta i t em s. C e r t a in im p o r ts are o n ly a dm i t t ed u n d er state t r a d i n g; these i n c l u de f e r t i l i z e r s, t o b a c c o, ma tche s, a nd a l c o h o l ic beve rages. F u r t h e rm o r e, f resh vege tab les a nd po ta toes are im p o r t ed u n d er the ausp ices of the A g r i c u l t u r al P r o d u c t i on B o a rd in a c c o r d a n ce w i th a g o v e r nm e nt a u t h o r i z a t i o n. N o ne of these c omm o d i t i e s, h ow e v e r, is subject to qu an t i t a t ive r e s t r i c t i o n. F or im p o r ts f r om a ll sou rces, w h en r e q u i r i ng a l i c en s e, a fee of % of 1 p er cent ( m i n i m um I Kr 1 0 . 0 0) is c h a r g ed as a l i c en se fee on the k r o n ur am o u nt of the im p o rt l icen se w h en the l icen se is i s su ed; f or p e t r o l e um p r o d u c t s, h ow e v e r, th is fee is 0.1 per cen t. T he c o m- T h e re a re two ca tego r ies of non r e s id ent k r o n ur a c c o u n t s: F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts a nd S p e c i al A c c o u n t s. T he o p e n i ng of n o n r e s i d e nt accoun ts r equ i r es i n d i v i d u al a p p r o v a l. Foreign Accounts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th the p roceeds 1T he liberalized commodities include agricultural commodities that are purchased from the Un ited States under a P . L. 480 agreement. In order to ensure the implementation of the agreement, the authorized banks are empowered to control the foreign exchange allocations for purchases of these commodities. 2 F or these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution m e r c i al b anks n o r m a l ly r e q u i re c e r t a in adv an ce depos i ts in c o n n e c t i on w i th im p o rt t r an s a c t ion s. Im p o r t e rs of goods n ot r e q u i r i ng l icenses do not h ave to o b t a in a f o r e i gn exchange p e rm it p r i or to s h i pm e nt f r om a b r o a d, p r o v i d ed that the pu r ch a se is p a y a b le at s igh t. On the o th er h a n d, the goods w i ll n ot be c l e a r ed by the cu s toms un less p a ym e nt has a l r e ady been m a de or the im p o r t er has a r r a n g ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk f or the p a ym e n t. An im p o r t er m ay e i ther o p en a le t ter of c r e d it or o b t a in a p a ym e nt ce r t i f ica te w h i ch enab les h im at a ny t ime to b uy f o r e i gn ex ch ange to p ay f or the good s. F or im p o r ts that r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al l icen se s, f o r­ e i gn ex ch ange is g r an t ed in a c c o r d a n ce w i th the te rms s t i p u l a t ed in the l i c e n s e. Im p o r t e rs m ay f ree ly accept s u p p l i e r s' c r e d it f or up to th ree m o n t hs f r om the date of a r r i v al at an I c e l a n d ic p o r t, except f or spec i f ied non e s s en t i al goods ( i n c l u d i ng m o t or v eh i c l es f or p e r s o n al use, w h en im p o r t ed f r om c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy c o u n t r i e s ). C r e d it in excess of 3 m o n t hs a nd n ot e x c e e d i ng 12 m o n t hs r equ i r es p e rm i s­ s i on by an a u t h o r i z ed b a n k, w h i le f o r e i gn c r e d it in excess of 12 m o n t hs is sub ject to g o v e r nm e nt a u t h o r i­ z a t i o n. Payments for Invisibles No ex ch ange l i c en se is r e q u i r ed f or g o v e r nm e nt p a y­ m en ts ( s u ch as in te rest a nd am o r t i z a t i on on e x t e r n al l o a n s, expenses of the f o r e i gn s e rv i c e, p aym en ts to i n t e r n a t i o n al o r g a n i z a t i o n s, p aym en ts f or p o s t a l, te le­ g r a p h i c, a nd te lephone s e r v i c e s ), f or b a n k i ng c omm i s­ s ion s, or f or b a nk cha rges on f o r e i gn ex ch ange t rans­ a c t ion s. M o st o th er o u t g o i ng p aym en ts are l i c e n s ed f ree ly on the bas is of b o na fide d o c um e n t s. T he b a s ic a l l o c a t i on f or t o u r i st t r a v el is the e q u i v a l e nt of I Kr 2 1 , 0 00 ( a b o ut U S $ 2 4 0) a p e r s on f or one t r ip a y e ar ( I Kr 10 ,500 f or c h i l d r e n ); if a s e c o nd t r ip is m a de in the same c a l e n d ar y e a r, an a d d i t i o n al a l l o c a t i on of 50 p er cent of the b a s ic a l l o c a t i on is g r an t ed. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or exchange f or m a j or r e p a ir of sh ip s, r e p a ir of means of t r an spo rt o ther t h an sh ips a nd a i r c r a f t, t r an s a c t ions a nd t rans fe rs in c o n n e c t i on w i th d i r e ct i n s u r a n c e, a nd i n s u r a n ce b u s i­ ness o p e r a t i o ns a b r o ad are c o n s i d e r ed on t h e ir m e r i t s. T he c h a r t e r i ng of f o r e i gn sh ips u s u a l ly is n ot a l l ow ed w h en I c e l a n d ic vessels are a v a i l a b le f or ch a r t er on n o r m al te rm s. R e s i d e nt a nd non r e s id ent t rave le rs m ay b r i ng in up to I Kr 1,500 in I c e l a n d ic b ankno t es a nd c o i n s, in d e n om i n a t i o ns n ot e x c e e d i ng I Kr 100. N o n r e s i d e nt t r av e l e rs m ay r e - expo rt any f o r e i gn exchange th ey b r o u g ht in u p on e n t r y. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll c o m m e r c i al e x p o r ts r e q u i re l icen se s. T he s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts m u st be l o d g ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a n k. E x c h a n ge r e c e ip ts a c c r u i ng f r om expo r ts mu st be su r­ r e n d e r ed w i t h o ut u n d ue d e l a y. E x p o rt cha rges of I C E L A ND 2 . 9 - 1 1 .2 p er cent are l e v i ed on the f .o .b. v a l ue of a ll f i sh p r o d u c t s. In a d d i t i o n, a cha rge of I Kr 1,900 a m e t r ic t on (but not to ex c e ed 4 .5 per cent of the f .o .b. v a l u e) is l e v i ed on the p r o d u c ts sub ject to the 2 .9 p er c ent ch a rg e. Proceeds from Invisibles E x c h a n ge rece ip ts f r om i n v i s i b l es mu st be sur­ r e n d e r ed w i t h o ut u n d ue d e l a y. T he own e rs of I c e l a n d ic sh ips a nd a i r c r a ft a re, w i th the a p p r o v al of the au tho r­ i z ed b a n k s, p e rm i t t ed to r e t a in th e ir f o r e i gn ex ch ange rece ip ts f r om f re igh t, passenger t i ck e t s, or o t h er cha rges, a nd to use t h em f or o p e r a t i ng pu rpo ses a nd f or p u r­ chases of necess i t ies f or the h om ew a rd j o u r n ey of the s h ip or a i r c r a f t. I c e l a n d ic i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i es w h i ch r e i n s u re a b r o ad are p e rm i t t ed to r e t a in f o r e i gn ex ch ange e a rn ed f r om p r em i ums a nd i n d em n i t i es a nd to use it to p ay r e i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s, c l a im s, a nd o th er r e g u l ar exp end i tu r es of the i n s u r a n ce bus iness in the c o u n t ry wh e re the f o r e i gn ex ch ange was e a rn ed. R e s i d e nt a nd non r e s id ent t r av e l e rs m ay b r i ng in up to I Kr 1,500 in I c e l a n d ic b ankno t es a nd c o i n s, in d e n om i n a t i o ns n ot e x c e e d i ng I Kr 1 0 0. T h e re are no l im i t a t i o ns on the im p o rt of f o r e i gn b ankno t es a nd c o i n s. Capital A ll inv e s tm en ts by non re s iden ts in I c e l a nd are sub­ ject to i n d i v i d u al a p p r o v a l. T he p a r t i c i p a t i on by n o n­ res iden ts in I c e l an d 's j o i nt s t o ck c om p a n i es m ay n ot ex c e ed 49 p er cen t, a nd is not a l l ow ed in the fishing i n d u s t r y. N o n r e s i d e n t - ow n ed f o r e i gn c a p i t al en t e r ing in the f o rm of f o r e i gn exchange m u st be su r r end e r ed. N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay be a u t h o r i z ed to o p en non r e s id ent a c coun ts f or these fund s, in w h i ch case th e ir re t ran s fer a b r o ad m ay be p e rm i t t e d. R e s id en ts a re o b l i g ed to su r r end er f o r e i gn exchange a c c r u i ng to t h em on a c c o u nt of c a p i t al t r an s a c t ions a nd p aym en t s. W i t h o ut the a p p r o v al of the G o v e r nm e n t, res iden ts m ay not o b t a in lo ans a b r o a d, i n c l u d i ng lo ans f or financing im p o r t s, f or p e r iods e x c e e d i ng one y e a r. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or the c o n t r a c t i ng of financial c red i ts a nd l o a ns a b r o ad f or a p e r i od of less t h an one y e ar are c o n s i d e r ed on t h e ir m e r i ts a nd a p p r o v ed o n ly in ex c ep­ t i o n al c i r c um s t a n c e s. T he c o n t r a c t i ng of c o m m e r c i al c red i ts a b r o ad f or a p e r i od of be tween 3 a nd 12 m o n t hs is a lso a p p r o v ed o n ly in e x c e p t i o n al c i r c um s t a n c e s, e .g ., in c o n n e c t i on w i th the im p o rt of i n d u s t r i al r aw ma te­ r i a ls f or w h i ch the p r o d u c t i on p rocess is l eng thy, the i m p o rt of c o n s t r u c t i on m a t e r i a l s, a nd so f o r t h. T he au tho r i t i es p e rm it the use of s u p p l i e r s' c r e d it of up to 90 d ay s, except f or the f i n a n c i ng of a n um b er of s p e c i­ fied im p o r t s, i n c l u d i ng m o t or v e h i c l es f or p e r s o n al use (w h en im p o r t ed f r om c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy c o u n t r i e s ) ,3 v a r i o us h o u s e h o ld app l i an c e s, spec i f ied food s, v a r i o us 3 Suppliers' credit for up to three months is allowed on automobiles imported from Eastern European clearing countries. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I C E L A ND types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Trans­ fers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and em i­ grants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and secu­ rities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus­ tr ial users. However, citizens returning to Iceland after a period of residence abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1971 January 1. G lob al import quotas for 1971 went into effect. August 23. The par value was maintained. The spread between the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar was widened from I Kr 87.90 buying, and I Kr 88.10 selling, per US$1 to I Kr 87.12 buying, and I Kr 87.52 selling, per U S $ 1. The buying and selling rates applied to clearing dollars remained unchanged at I Kr 87.90 buying, and I Kr 88.10 selling, per U S $ 1. Rates for other currencies were based on available inter­ national quotations for these currencies against dollars. August 23. Temporary restrictions were imposed on inward and outward private capital transfers and on advance receipts and advance repayments of loans taken up abroad. These restrictions were revoked on Septem­ ber 8. September 13. The official selling rate for the U. S. dollar was changed from I Kr 87.52 to I Kr 87.42 per US $ 1. The selling rate for clearing dollars remained unchanged at I Kr 88.10. December 20. A central rate of I Kr 88.00 per US$1 was established. As a result, the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged. Iceland d id not avail itself of wider margins. The official buying and selling rates for U. S. dollars remained I Kr 87.12 and I Kr 87.42 per U S $ 1, and those for clearing dollars were unchanged at I Kr 87.90 and I Kr 88.10. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee. A central rate of Rs 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1 has been established, and India avails itself of wider margins. On December 31, 1971, the Reserve Bank of India's buying and selling rates for its operations in sterling, the intervention currency, with authorized deal­ ers were Rs 18.92111 and Rs 19.0143 per <£ stg. 1. Transactions in foreign exchange, other than sterling, are conducted through authorized dealers at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot trans­ actions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their require­ ments of non-Sterling A r ea currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in cer­ tain currencies 1 against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the B i la teral Account group.2 On December 30, 1971, market rates for telegraphic trans­ fers on N ew Y o rk were US$13.55 buying, and US$13 .36 selling, per Rs 100. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy la id down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. M u ch of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. A p p l i c a­ tions to make direct investments in India are reviewed by the Fore ign Investment Boa rd. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling A r ea and has an exchange control system similar to that of the Un i ted K ingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. F or prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling A r ea countries, Bilateral Account countries,2 and the Convertible Account group (all other countries). Payments to and from Sterling A r ea countries may 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special payments arrangements with Afghanistan, Egypt, and the Sudan for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodi­ ties on a balanced basis within specified ceilings. The State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement with the Tunisian agency OCET for balancing purchases of specified commodities. Settlements with Yugoslavia are to take place in convertible currency from January 1973. be made in sterling or any Sterling A r ea currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling A rea country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling A r ea country except Ind ia .3 Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Pay­ ments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or any other Sterling A r ea currency to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts from the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency, in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to a ll other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip­ tion of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling A r ea Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms (including banks) or persons, with proceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and w i th proceeds from sales of sterling from the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the Un i ted K ingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other pay­ ments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of countries in the Sterling A r e a, or when the transferor account is of a country in the Convertible Account group and the transferee account is of a country either in the same group or in the Sterling A r e a. Transfers may be made 3 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remit­ tances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to mainland China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remit­ tances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Mone­ tary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U. S. sovereignty. G However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IND IA from Convertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling A r ea Accounts, and between Sterling A r ea Accounts. A ll other entries on Sterling A r ea Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of pay­ ments to residents, require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without pr ior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate non­ resident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescrip­ tion of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the L i fe Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv idual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, matu­ rity proceeds of a ll types of securities as we ll as sale proceeds of securities sold on the stock exchange may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder ( in the case of a joint account, any of the account holders) is a foreign national, authorized deal­ ers may freely credit sale and maturity proceeds of a ll types of securities, provided that the securities had been originally purchased either out of proceeds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad, w i th a balance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely deb­ ited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresi­ dent accounts may be debited without pr ior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; a ll taxes due from the account holder in India; contribu­ tions to the Na t ional Defence Fund, the Pr ime M i n­ ister's Na t ional Relief Fund, or any government- sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; invest­ ment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Un it Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while tem­ porarily resident in India. F or ordinary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian or ig in w i th balances in excess of Rs 50,000, as we ll as blocked accounts of such persons, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week during their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annually may be debited for any purpose during an account holder's stay in 206 Ind ia. Other credits and debits require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally per­ mitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in Na t ional Defence Remittance Scheme (Special) Accounts rep­ resenting rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on M ay 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to pr ior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with balances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any payments in India. Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts may freely be opened by banks in India for private persons of Indian nationality or origin resident outside India. They may be freely credited w i th new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder. They may also be credited, after approval by the Reserve Bank, with funds from any other nonresident account of the holder, provided such funds are eligible for remittance. The accounts may be freely debited for disbursements in India and for trans­ fer abroad, w i th the proviso that holders resident in the Sterling A r ea may not make transfers outside the A r e a. Interest is exempt from income tax and freely trans­ ferable. There are also blocked accounts, to which are cred­ ited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities ( inc lud ing approved shares quoted on the stock exchange); the income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance w i th the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. F or Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities pr ior to January 1, 1963, net income from investments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in fu l l. F or those granted such facilities between January 1963 and A p r il 1968, remittances of income from assets left behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any k ind is remittable to persons who obtained emigra­ tion facilities after A p r il 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified items may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically a ll other imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requ ire i n d i v i d u al l icenses. Impor ts of spec if ied raw ma ter ia ls, spare parts, and c omp on en ts r equ i r ed by key and p r i o r i ty indu s tr ie s, i n c l u d i ng sma l l -sca le indu s­ tries, a nd by units in o ther indus tr ies that h ad an e xp o rt p e r f o rm a n ce of 10 p er cent or m o re of the ir p r o d u c­ t ion d u r i ng the p r ev ious year, are l icen sed l ib e r a l l y. L i c en s es f or raw ma ter ia ls and c omp on en ts are issued on a c o n t i n u i ng basis genera l ly by way of imp o r t e rs c l a im i ng r ep l en i shm ent of goods a c tua l ly c o n s um ed d u r i ng a p e r i od of not less than three and not m o re than six m on th s. As for spare parts, licenses are issued annu a l ly on the basis of p r e s c r ib ed percentages of the c. i. f. v a lue of the im p o r t ed m a c h i n e ry and of ind ige­ nous m a c h i n e ry h a v i ng im p o r t ed c omp on en t s. L i c en s es to a c tual users f or imp o r ts of raw ma ter ia l s, c om p o­ nents, and spare parts are not gran ted w h o l ly against free fo r e ign exchange, but p a r t ly against t ied -a id c r e d­ its f r om p a r t i c u l ar coun tr ie s. H o w e v e r, a greater pre f­ erence w i th respect to the p e rm i t t ed o r i g in of imp o r ts is a c c o r d ed to a c tual users w i th specified m i n i m um export p e r f o rm a n c e. I n d i v i d u al licenses m ay be issued ( 1) ad h o c, ( 2) on the basis of quo tas a l lo ca t ed to es tab l ished imp o r t e rs in a c c o rd an ce w i th the ir imp o r ts in a base p e r i o d, ( 3) to a c tual users on the basis of the ir r equ i r em en t s, and ( 4) to reg istered expor ters in a c c o r d a n ce w i th the im p o rt con tent of the ir expor t s. G e n e r a l l y, licenses m ay be u sed to im p o rt f r om any c o u n t ry except P o r t u g a l, R h o d e s i a, S o u th A f r i c a, S o u t h­ w e st A f r i ca ( N a m i b i a ), and T i b e t; imp o r ts f r om these coun tr ies are p r o h i b i t e d .7 S u ch l icenses are r e f e r r ed to as G e n e r al C u r r e n cy A r ea L i c en s e s, as d is t inct f r om Spec i f ic L i c en s e s, w h i ch are issued f or cap i tal goods a nd o t h e/ supp l ies against t ied a id and are v a l id o n ly f or impo r ts f r om the c o u n t ry or coun tr ies p r o v i d i ng the assistance. S ing le C o u n t ry L i c en s es are issued f or cer­ ta in imp o r ts f r om coun tr ies w i th w h i ch b i la t e ral trade or paymen ts agreements are in fo r c e. L i c e n s i ng p o l i cy genera l ly a c co rds p r i o r i ty to f o o d­ stuffs, fer t i l izers, cap i tal goods, raw ma ter ia l s, and other indu s t r ial r equ i r em en t s, wh i le the im p o rt of o ther items is severe ly l im i t ed or p r o h i b i t e d. T he im p o rt p r o g r am for the p e r i od end ed M a r ch 31, 1972 con ta ins a p r o­ h ib i t ed l i s t8 of 635 c omm o d i t i es and a list of 252 items that are l i c en s ed on a "restr icted basis," i.e., in m i n or amoun ts and o n ly if c om p a r a b le dom e s t ic p rodu c ts e i ther are not ava i lab le or are i n a d e q u a t e .9 L i c e n s i ng is in most cases on an a n n u al basis. T h e re are spec ial p r o c edu r es app l i cab le to impo r ts of cap i tal goods, of h eavy e lec tr ical p lan t, and of goods im p o r t ed to fu l f i ll gov e rnm ent con trac ts and f or i r r i g a t i on pro jec ts. F a v o r ed treatment in a l l o c a t ing f o r e i gn exchange f or 7 The importation from Nepal of commodities originating in coun­ tries other than Nepal or India also is prohibited. 8 Imports of certain prohibited items are permitted either ad hoc or under the import replenishment scheme. "T he import program announced on A p r il 3, 1972 added 56 items to the list of imports to be channeled through public sector agencies, imposed a ban on the import of 160 additional items, and restricted the import of 87 others. IND IA impo r ts of cap i tal goods a nd equ ipm ent is g iv en to "key" industr ies and "p r io r i ty" indus tr ies. An imp o rt r ep l en i shm ent scheme enables registered expor ters to ob t a in specified raw ma ter ia ls and other items needed for the ir export p r o d u c t i o n; these c omm od i t i es in c lude c e r ta in items whose im p o rt otherw ise is b ann ed. In l icen s ing impor ts of a cap i tal na ture, the ir essent ia l ity, the ir po ten t ial for ea rn ing or sav ing fo r e ign exchange, and the ava i lab i l i ty of m e d i um - t e rm or l on g - t e rm cred its for financing such impo r ts are taken into a c coun t. Impo rt licenses for m a ch ine tools and other cap i tal goods v a l u ed at mo re than Rs 750 ,000 are not gran ted un t il Ind i an p r odu c e rs have been g iven an oppo r tun i ty by p u b l ic advert isement to supp ly th em; l icenses are o n ly issued if offers by dome s t ic p r odu c e rs are d i sp r o­ po r t iona t e ly expens ive or unaccep tab le f or o ther rea­ sons, or wh en no offers are rece ived w i th in 45 days. F or cer ta in types of steel castings a nd forg ing s, this p o l i cy app l ies to a ll orders of m o re than Rs 50 ,000. A spec ial fee is l ev i ed on a v o lun t a ry basis on impo r ts of long-stap le co t ton. W h e re a v a l id im p o rt l icense is h e ld, the r equ i r ed exchange is re leased by an au th o r i z ed b a nk on presenta­ t ion of the exchange c on t r ol c o py of the l icense. L i c e n se ho lders m ay m ake paymen ts by op en ing letters of cred it or by r em i t t ing against sight drafts. A d v a n ce rem i t­ tances before sh ipp ing do cum en ts c an be subm i t ted are not n o rm a l ly a l l ow ed; but in spec ial cases, e.g., impo r ts of m a c h i n e ry and cap i tal goods, where deposits have to be made w i th overseas m anu f a c tu r e r s, the Re serve B a nk grants spec ial au tho r i za t ion f or advance p a ym ent for a part of the va lue of the imp o r t. T he im p o rt of c e r ta in c omm od i t i e s, i n c l u d i ng f o o d- gra ins, cer ta in oils and fats, a n um b er of p h a rm a c e u t i­ c al p rodu c t s, c o r kw o o d, raw co t ton, raw jute, cashew nuts, most fer t i l izers, most non f e r rous meta ls, and m a ny categor ies of steel is reserved for the G o v e r nm e nt or state t rad ing enterprises, the most impo r tant of w h i ch are the State T r a d i ng C o r p o r a t i on ( S T C ), the Jute C o r p o r a t i on of Ind ia, the F o od C o r p o r a t i on of Ind ia, H i n d u s t an Steel L t d. ( H S L ), and the M i n e r a ls and M e t a ls T r a d i ng C o r p o r a t i on ( M M T C ). In 1 9 7 1 - 7 2, the n um b er of su ch c omm od i t i es was ra ised by 51 items to 112 items. In add i t i on, impor ts of na tural rubb e r, su lphur p r odu c t s, v i tam in s, a nd an t ib io t ics are n o rm a l ly arranged under the ausp ices of the S T C. B u lk impo r ts of cer ta in raw ma ter ia ls that are not reserved f or the p u b l ic sector m ay also be a r rang ed by state agencies, i n c l u d i ng the Indu s tr ial R aw M a t e r i a ls A s s i s tance C e n t re ( I R M A C ). In a d d i t i on to any app l i cab le im p o rt du ty, impo r ts are subject to a r egu la to ry du ty of 2.5 p er cent ad v a l o r em. F or some c omm od i t i es the r egu la to ry du ty is 10 per cent, and exemp t ions in c lude g ra in a nd b o ok s. Payments for Invisibles In genera l, paymen ts ab r o ad f or inv is ib les r equ i re 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IND IA a p p r o v a l. F o r e i gn ex ch ange is g r an t ed f ree ly f or a f ew s u ch p aym en t s, m a i n ly f or expenses i n c i d e n t al to t rade t ran sac t ions a nd t rans fe rs of r e c u r r i ng c o n t r a c t u al o b l i­ g a t ion s. P r e m i u ms on i n s u r a n ce p o l i c i es i s sued in f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n cy to res iden ts m ay be p a id in rupees or in the c u r r e n cy in w h i ch the p o l i cy is i s su ed; but I n d i an r e s i­ dents are p r o h i b i t ed f r om t a k i ng out l i fe i n s u r a n ce p o l­ ic ies in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i e s. B r a n c h es of f o r e i gn b a n ks are not a l l ow ed to t ran s fer a b r o ad any p ro f i ts a r i s i ng f r om the sale of n o n b a n k i ng assets. O t h e rw i se the re are no r e s t r i c t ions on the r em i t­ tance of p ro f i ts, d i v i d e n d s, a nd in te rest to non r e s id ent bene f ic ia r ies (except any i n c ome a c c r u i ng to b en e f i c i­ aries of the N a t i o n al D e f e n ce R em i t t a n ce S c h e m e ), p r o v i d ed that a ll c u r r e nt t ax a nd o th er l i a b i l i t i es in I n d ia have been c l e a r e d, except wh e re s u ch r e p a t r i a t i on r igh ts have been v o l u n t a r i ly s u r r e n d e r e d. H o w e v e r, r em i t­ tances to I n d i an n a t i o n a ls w ho we re g r an t ed ex ch ange f a c i l i t i es for em i g r a t i on on or af ter J a n u a ry 1, 1963 but be fo re A p r il 30, 1968 of d i v i d e n ds a nd in te rest on shares, secu r i t ie s, a nd depo s i ts h e ld in I n d ia are sub ject to an o v e r a ll l i m it of Rs 2 0 , 0 00 a y e ar a nd to a ny spe­ c i al d i r e c t ions g i v en to the p e r s on c o n c e r n ed w h en he was g r an t ed em i g r a t i on f a c i l i t i e s. F or pe r sons w ho h ave been g ran ted em i g r a t i on f a c i l i t i es after A p r il 30, 1968 on g r o u n ds of h a r d s h i p, no r em i t t a n ce of i n c ome is a l l ow e d. P r o f it r em i t t an c es by b r an ch es of f o r e i gn firms e s tab l i shed on or af ter M a r ch 1, 1969 w i t h o ut the p r i or a p p r o v al of the R e s e rve B a nk a re not a l l ow e d. F o r e i gn emp loyees are p e rm i t t ed to m a ke r e a son ab le rem i t tances to t h e ir o wn coun t r i es to p ay i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s, f or the suppo rt of t h e ir f am i l i e s, a nd f or o ther expenses. A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay a l l ow s u ch r em i t t an c es by f o r e i gn n a t i o n a l s, o th er t h an n a t i o n a ls of P a k i s t a n, to the ex tent of 50 p er cent of net i n c om e, subject to a m a x i m um of Rs 2 , 3 60 a m o n t h. R equ e s ts for the r em i t t a n ce of l a r g er am o u n ts are c o n s i d e r ed on t h e ir me r i ts by the R e s e r ve B a n k. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or f o r e i gn ex ch ange f or t r a v el or e d u­ c a t i on a b r o ad are c o n s i d e r ed on an i n d i v i d u al bas is a nd r e q u i re the p r i or a p p r o v al of the R e s e rve B a n k. U n d er the F o r e i gn T r a v el S c h em e, 1970, h ow e v e r, res iden ts are p e rm i t t ed to t r a v el a b r o ad on ce e v e ry th ree yea rs w i t h o ut "P f o r m" f o rm a l i t i e s; if t r a v e l i ng by I n d i an c a r r i er on a r o u n d t r ip t i c k e t, they are e n t i t l ed to f o r e i gn ex ch ange up to U S $ 1 00 or i ts e q u i v a l e n t. T he scheme is a p p l i c a b le to a ll de s t ina t ions ex c ept C e y l o n, M a u r i­ t iu s, a nd N e p a l; t r a v el to these th ree c o u n t r i es is not t a k en i n to a c c o u nt in d e t e rm i n i ng e l i g i b i l i ty u n d er the scheme. U n d er a M a u r i t i us T r a v el S c h em e, s u b s t a n t i a l ly the same f a c i l i t i es are a v a i l a b le f or t r a v el to M a u r i t i u s, a nd the re are no r e s t r i c t ions on t r a v el to N e p a l, w h i le passages m ay be b o o k ed f ree ly f or t r a v el f r om M a d r as to C e y l o n. T he schemes m e n t i o n ed do not p r e c l u de access to o ther t r a v el f a c i l i t i es ( f or pu rpo ses s u ch as bus iness t r a v el or a t tendance at con fe rences or s em i­ na r s, e tc .) that m ay be a p p r o v ed u n d er n o r m al p r o­ 208 cedu re s. T r a v el agents a nd a i r l i n es a nd s team sh ip c o m­ p an i es are not p e rm i t t ed to b o ok passages a b r o ad f or pe rsons re s ident in I n d ia ( o t h er t h an f o r e i gn n a t i o n a ls t em p o r a r i ly res ident in I n d i a) un less the t r a v e l er is e l i g i b le u n d er the F o r e i gn T r a v el S ch eme or the M a u­ r i t i us T r a v el S ch em e, has been g r an t ed t r a v el exchange by the R e s e rve B a n k, or has been sp e c i f i c a l ly g r an t ed p e rm i s s i on by the R e s e rve B a nk to b o ok h is p a s s a g e .10 T r a v el a b r o ad to a t tend con fe rences is u n r e s t r i c t ed p r o­ v i d ed expenses are c o v e r ed by the host i n s t i t u t i o n. T he e x p o rt of I n d i an c u r r e n cy no tes a nd c o i ns ex c ept to N e p al i s, in g en e r a l, p r o h i b i t e d. T he e x p o rt to N e p al of I n d i an c u r r e n cy notes in d e n om i n a t i o ns of Rs 100 or h i g h er is a l so p r o h i b i t e d. H o w e v e r, d e ck passengers to B u r m a, M a l a y s i a, S i n g a p o r e, P e r s i an G u lf po r t s, a nd E a st A f r i ca a nd passengers to C e y l on or P a k i s t an m ay take w i th t h em Rs 20 a p e r s on at any one t ime in I n d i an notes ( w i t h in the l i m it of Rs 30 f or I n d i an a nd f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy no tes c o m b i n e d ). R e s id en ts m ay t a ke out f o r­ e i gn no tes a nd c o i ns up to <£3.50 or i ts e q u i v a l e nt a p e r s o n; a u t h o r i z ed mon ey - ch ang e rs at a i rpo r ts a nd sea­ por ts a re p e rm i t t ed to s e ll f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy notes up to a v a l ue of <£3 .50 or its e q u i v a l e nt a p e r son to a ll pas­ sengers, w h e t h er I n d i an or f o r e i g n, b ut not to d e ck passengers or t rave le rs p r o c e e d i ng to C e y l o n, P a k i s t a n, N e p a l, or B h u t a n, or to t r an s it passengers or passengers h o l d i ng op en -d a t ed t icke ts ( i n c l u d i ng r e t u rn t i c k e t s) issued ou t s ide I n d i a. T r a v e l e rs to P a k i s t an m ay take P a k i s t an rupees in notes or co ins up to the e q u i v a l e nt of Rs 30 a p e r s o n; t rave le rs to C e y l on m ay t a ke <£1.50 a p e r s o n. N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay t a ke out the f o r e i gn no tes a nd c o i ns w h i ch they d e c l a r ed on en t ry, less the am o u n ts s o ld to a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs in I n d i a. R e s id en ts t r a v e l i ng a b r o ad mu st p ay a t r a v el t ax of 15 p er cent on a first-class t i ck et or 10 p er cent on an e conom y - c l a ss t i c k e t; t i ck e ts p a id f or in f o r e i gn exchange a re exemp t. Exports and Export Proceeds E x p o rt l icenses are r e q u i r ed f or o n ly a f ew i t em s, a nd mo st c omm o d i t i es m ay be e x p o r t ed w i t h o ut a l i c en s e. M o st of the c o n t r o l l ed c omm o d i t i es are l i c e n s ed f ree ly to a ll sh ipp e r s; a few m ay be e x p o r t ed t h r o u gh e s tab l i shed sh ipp e r s; a nd a few c omm o d i t i es are subject to e x p o rt quo ta s. E x p o r ts to P o r t u g a l, R h o d e s i a, S o u th A f r i c a, S o u t h -W e st A f r i ca ( N a m i b i a ), a nd T i b et are p r o h i b i t e d. E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol is ex e r c i s ed ov er the p roceeds of expo r ts to c o u n t r i es o th er t h an B h u t an a nd N e p a l. An e x p o r t er mu st d e c l a re that the f u ll e x p o rt p ro c e eds 10 P r i or p e r m i s s i on to b o ok p a s s a g es a b r o ad is n ot n e c e s s a r y, h o w­ e v e r, f or t he f o l l o w i n g: d e ck p a s s e n g e rs to or f r om B u r m a, C e y l o n, M a l a y s i a, S i n g a p o r e, P a k i s t a n, P e r s i an G u lf p o r t s, or E a st A f r i c a; UN staff m e m b e rs a nd t h e ir f a m i l i es w h o se t i c k e ts a re p u r c h a s ed by or on i n s t r u c t i on f r om UN a g e n c i e s; s ta ff of a i r l i ne a nd s t e am er c o m p a n i es t r a v e l i ng on o f f i c i al d u t y; t r a v el b e tw e en I n d ia a nd P a k i­ s t an by p e r s o ns h o l d i ng r e s t r i c t ed t r a v el d o c u m e n ts i s s u ed by t he H i gh C o m m i s s i on f or P a k i s t an in I n d ia or I n d i a - P a k i s t an p a s s p o r t s; a ir t r a v el b e tw e en M a d r a s / T i r u c h i r a p a l l i / T r i v a n d r um a nd C o l o m b o, C e y l o n; a nd t r a v el b e tw e en N e p al a nd I n d i a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution w i ll be received in and dealt w i th in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currencies 11 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on Ju ly 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by h im, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not repre­ sent the proceeds of an export. Expo rt proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some major exports, inc lud ing jute manufactures, are subject to export duties. Exports of mica, tobacco, and lac are subject to m in imum prices. Some exports receive cash assistance ranging from 5 to 30 per cent of the f. o. b. value; they are mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods. The cotton textile industry receives grants-in-aid. An import replenishment scheme provides certain import licensing facilities for produc­ ers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies 11 must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers from Ma lays ia, Singapore, Persian G u lf ports, and East A f r i c a, and travelers from Cey lon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Persons coming to India from Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a ch i ld between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without l im i t, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arr iva l. Per­ sons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money-changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an investment requir­ ing the pr ior approval of the Indian Government. A ll applications for foreign direct investments in India are screened by the Foreign Investment Board. Banks in 11 Canadian dollars, U. S. dollars, most Western European curren­ cies (including sterling), Djibouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietna­ mese piastres. IND IA India may borrow freely from their branches and cor­ respondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 m i l l ion are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank to finance their normal business operations in India and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Cap i tal invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appre­ ciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time; the public has been advised, however, to obtain the Reserve Bank's prior approval before effect­ ing a sale when repatriation of the assets may exceed Rs 1 m i l l ion. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Lo c al borrowing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. P r i or permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partnership firms or cor­ porate bodies to accept appointment as agents or tech­ n ical advisors. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In exceptional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a l im it of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emi­ grant's assets and income are blocked and no further remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a l im it of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, pro­ vided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addi­ tion, they may transfer a ll their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to ho ld foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not invo lv ing a breach of the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nationals, who are private persons are not normally permitted to pur­ chase securities outside India. Gold In India, detailed control is exercised over the manu­ facture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through a G o ld Con trol Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. A l though there is no ban on possession of finished 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IND IA articles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manufacture, acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any pur i ty) above specified limits are subject to the requirement of declaration. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Con t rol is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. G o ld refining is under state management. The Government M i nt is licensed under the G o ld Con t rol L aw to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are prescribed. Fo rwa rd trading in gold or silver is pro­ hibited. Imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; established jewelers, however, are from time to time granted licenses to import gold for the manufacture in their workshops of jewelry for export. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the U. S. S. R. and other Eastern European coun­ tries is prohibited. Changes during 1971 April 2. The Jute Corpora t ion of India was estab­ lished. It would, inter alia, import jute fiber and export jute goods. The State Trad ing Corporation would relinquish its activities in this field. May 1. The import policy for 1971/72 was announced. The joint objectives of import substitution and export promotion were maintained and there was a further expansion in the importing role of the state trading agencies. Fifty-one items were added to the existing 61 items reserved to the public sector, and on this basis it was expected that 70 per cent of a ll imports would be in the public sector by the end of the financial year. One hundred and seventy items were removed from the list of permissible imports and restrictions were placed on the import of a further 67 items. P ro­ vision was made for special import privileges for indus­ trial units in backward areas and for meeting the import needs of engineering firms in West Bengal and of doc­ tors, hospitals, and other medical institutions. May 28. The budget proposals included a travel tax and measures to simplify import duties. The tax on foreign travel was levied at the rate of 15 per cent on all first-class tickets purchased in rupees, and at 10 per cent on economy-class tickets; tickets paid for in foreign exchange were exempt. The number of effec­ tive ad valorem rates of import duty was reduced from seven to four. The list of priority industries for income tax purposes was shortened by excluding five items and the special tax exemption accorded to the remaining priority industries was lowered. July 14. Agreement was reached with Yugoslavia that settlements would be placed on a convertible cur­ rency basis with effect from January 1, 1973. August 15. A new Treaty on Trade and Transit between India and Nepal came into force, replacing that of September 11, 1960, wh ich had expired on October 31, 1970. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The Indian rupee was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. The effective parity rela­ tionship for the U. S. dollar was maintained at Rs 7.50 = U S $ 1. The rupee-sterling rate began to fluc­ tuate in accordance with the dollar-sterling rate in the London market. The Reserve Bank of India suspended forward purchases of sterling. August 28. The Reserve Bank resumed its forward purchases of sterling. December 13. Export duties on jute products (carpet backing and other hessian cloth and bags) were increased. A regulatory duty of 2.5 per cent ad valorem (10 per cent on certain specified items) was imposed on imports; grain, books, and a few other items were exempt. December 20. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 21. December 20. A central rate of Rs 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1 was established and India availed itself of wider mar­ gins. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became Rs 7.27927 = U S $ 1. The Indian rupee was repegged from the U. S. dollar to sterling. The central rate represented maintenance of the median rupee-sterling rate of December 17. December 20. The Reserve Bank set the official buy­ ing and selling rates for its spot operations in sterling with authorized dealers at Rs 18.92111 and Rs 19.0143 per <£ stg. 1. December 20. The Reserve Bank suspended its for­ ward purchases of sterling. They were resumed on December 28, at up to nine months (previously, up to six months). 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts INDONESIA No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. In the Djakarta exchange market, transactions in U. S. dollars are effected at rates w i th in 1 per cent either side of Rp 415 per US$1; on December 31, 1971 the buying and selling rates were Rp 414.50 and Rp 416.00, respectively. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the Djakarta rates for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the rates in international markets for the currencies concerned. An additional effective exchange rate results from the application of a 10 per cent exchange tax to the proceeds from the export of most commodities. In the Djakarta Bourse three calls for exchange are conducted each week under the management of Bank Indonesia. B idd ing for exchange in the ca ll is restricted to the foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any w i l l ing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks notify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers author­ ized banks certain facilities for swap transactions. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system, but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. It is also legal tender in West Ir ian. The exchange rate between the Irian Barat rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = Rp 18.9. The exchange rate of the Irian Barat rupiah in terms of cur­ rencies other than the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 21.96 = US$1 or the equivalent for other currencies. The 10 per cent exchange tax on most export proceeds is appli­ cable also in West Irian, giving rise to an additional effective exchange rate. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the M in is t ry of Trade, the M in i s t ry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in converti­ ble currencies. Indonesia has no operative payments agreements.1 1 Indonesia maintains inoperative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, mainland China, and North Korea. No distinction is made between resident and non­ resident accounts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange A ct recognizes only foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since October 31, 1968, only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their licenses and new foreign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports from Ango la, mainland Ch ina, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of specified commodities, including com­ pletely assembled commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in built-up or semiknocked- down condition; sarongs; galvanized i ron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; and specified types of textiles, car tires, batteries, printed matter, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. The importing of cloves, wheat and wheat flour, fertilizer, and refined sugar is restricted to specified approved importers. No licenses are required for imports, but import items are divided into four categories —A, B, C, and D —according to their essen­ tiality; this classification is used in controls over credit arrangements for imports and in the implementation of foreign aid arrangements. Most goods on lists A and B may be imported either with general exchange (Devisa Umum) or aid exchange (Devisa Kredit), while those on lists C and D may only be imported with general exchange. F or imports financed with aid exchange a compensation payment is granted after customs clear­ ance; this payment ranges from Rp 20 to Rp 60 per U. S. dollar of landed value, depending on country of origin and /or donor country. Importers may without bank guarantee contract short-term usance credit under "merchant letters of credit," but otherwise sight letters of credit are required for a ll private sector imports with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, and imports specifically authorized by the M in is t ry of Trade (such as goods constituting part of a foreign investment). A rupiah deposit of 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of government imports; for nongovernment imports, importers are required to make an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the letter of credit value when they submit applications for letters of credit to 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONE S IA authorized banks. Importers' requests for registration of merchant letters of credit with foreign exchange banks must be accompanied by an advance payment in rupiahs of 25 per cent of the value. The deposits are released to the importer only for payment or when he presents cor­ respondence from suppliers indicating that the merchant letter of credit has been canceled. Import duties, which are almost without exception ad valorem, are imposed on the c.i.f. value of the commodities converted at the customs valuation rate (Rp 415 per US$1 on December 31, 1971). The import duty structure is complex; it includes a basic duty, sur­ charges, exemptions, and extra levies. Surcharges or exemptions are applied to most of the basic duties. F or some tariff items which are free of basic duty there is an extra levy of between Rp 10 and Rp 250 per U. S. dollar on the c. & f. value of the goods. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c.i.f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempted from import duties are also exempted from sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. P ro­ ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank­ notes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold coins; Indonesian commemorative gold coins may be taken out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Ango la, mainland Ch ina, Israel, Rho­ desia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited, as are exports to a ll countries of gold ore and pure gold; certain cate­ gories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; and scrap bronze, copper, and i ron (other than scrap bronze and copper from West I r i a n ). The pr ior authorization of the M in is ter of Trade is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, iron scrap (from Java and M a d u r a ), silver, and antiques of cultural value. Otherwise, a ll commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state trading firms. F u ll surrender requirements are in effect for the proceeds from a ll nonpetroleum exports (except in "border-crossing" trade; see be low ). A ll exporters except the petroleum companies, cer­ tain mining companies, and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. F or the pr inc ipal export commodities other than petro­ leum, the sales price must not be lower than " ind ica­ t ion" prices determined periodically by the M in is ter of Trade. The fu ll proceeds from exports other than petro­ leum are subject to surrender and, except for petroleum products, finished goods, batik textiles, and other handi­ crafts, are subject to the 10 per cent exchange tax; the exporter settles the tax on receipt of the export pro­ 212 ceeds. A specific cess is levied on exports of certain agricultural products and on interisland trading in the same products. Ag r icu l tu ral commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Ma lays ia and Singa­ pore in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade, the value of import or export shipments must not exceed M $ 6 00 a month, if trans­ ported overland, and M $ 6 00 a shipment, if transported by sea. Capital The Foreign Cap i tal Investment L aw of January 10, 1967 provides various incentives for the investment of foreign capital in Indonesia. Investments in specified fields of activity (including harbors, electric power, shipping, railroads, and commerce) may be undertaken only through a joint venture w i th an Indonesian partner. The Investment L aw specifies a system of investment priorities; it assigns the highest priority to enterprises generating foreign exchange, followed by those that save foreign exchange. Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operation permit for foreign investment is usually va l id for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemp­ tion from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Joint ventures by Indonesians and foreigners may benefit from s im i­ lar tax incentives. Other inducements include exemp­ tion from customs duties, accelerated depreciation allowances, and permission to offset in i t ial losses against subsequent profits; foreign investments w i th a m in imum capital of US$15 m i l l ion may receive addi­ tional benefits. The transfer of profits (after settle­ ment of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) is guaranteed. Guarantees of transfer are also given in respect of depreciation allowances and transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign persons in Indonesia. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The law imp l ic i t ly provides guarantees against nationalization of foreign investments. Equitable and mutually satisfactory arrangements are stipulated for resolving the issue of just compensation in the event of nationalization of any specific foreign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises previously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in within the context of rehabilitation and expansion programs that have been approved by the Government. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations could take place with effect from January 1, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the proceeds each year, with a fu ll guarantee as to their value in foreign cur­ rency. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Gov­ ernment is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is guaranteed as to its value in foreign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (D IC S) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaran- teed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of D ICS -Rup i ah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors w i l l ing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments in Indonesia are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's D I CS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo­ nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in commodities. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign national­ ity may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign cur­ rency (with the exception of securities covered by a special arrangement w i th the Netherlands). Gold Indonesia has issued five commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited by virtue of Decision N o. 6 8 / K P / I V / 70 of A p r il 17, 1970 of the Minister of Trade. Travelers may freely take out Indo­ nesian commemorative gold coins up to Rp 65,000 a person; amounts in excess require the p r ior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require pr ior notification to the M in i s t ry of Indus­ try and are subject to an extra levy of Rp 25 per U S $ 1. Changes during 1971 January 6. A reserve requirement in foreign exchange was introduced against designated foreign exchange liabilities of authorized banks. The requirement that authorized banks purchase fu ll cover against letter of credit liabilities was terminated. January 8. The rate of M PO (withholding tax) on all imports was increased from 2 per cent to 3 per cent. February 18. The rupiah became legal tender in Irian Barat; the Irian Barat rupiah was to retain legal tender INDONES IA status until December 31, 1971, but in effect retained this status into 1972. April 5. Importers were required to make an advance import deposit in rupiahs of 25 per cent of the total amount of merchant letters of credit when these were presented to the authorized banks for registration. June 24. F or letters of credit in respect of imports financed with aid exchange (Devisa Kredit), except those financed with investment credit or w i th aid exchange from Japan or the Federal Republic of Ger­ many, the countervalue in rupiahs could be deposited upon delivery of documents, but not later than four months after opening the letter of credit. July 24. The rate of M PO (withholding tax) applied to imports under merchant letters of credit was raised from 3 per cent to 6 per cent. August 18. Foreign exchange transactions on the Djakarta Bourse were suspended. They were resumed on August 23. August 18. Bank Indonesia terminated its forward cover facility and suspended its swap facility. August 23. The official exchange rate of the Indo­ nesian rupiah was depreciated from Rp 378 = US$1 to Rp 415 = US$1. The exchange rate applicable to trans­ actions of o il companies also was changed from Rp 378 to Rp 415 per U. S. dollar. The exchange rate of the Irian Barat rupiah in terms of foreign currency was depreciated from IBRp 20 = US$1 to IBRp 21.96 = US $ 1, but the rate in terms of the Indonesian rupiah was maintained unchanged at Rp 18.90 = IBRp 1. August 23. The exchange rate for customs valuation purposes was changed from Rp 378 = US$1 to R p 4 15 = U S $ 1. August 23. A compensation arrangement was intro­ duced for imports with foreign aid funds (Devisa Kredit). It was designed to compensate for the relative cost disadvantage of financing imports with aid exchange compared with general exchange. A compen­ sation payable after customs clearance was granted as follows ( in rupiahs per US$1 of landed cos t ): Rp 60 for shipment from Canada and the United States; Rp 40 for shipment from Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United K ingdom; Rp 30 for shipment from Aus tra l ia and New Zealand and countries supplying under untied U. S. a id; and Rp 20 for shipment from Japan. The special credit facilities for aid imports that had been introduced in January and June 1971 were withdrawn. September 7. A ll imports originating in or shipped from Hong K o n g, Japan, Ma lays ia, or Singapore, whether financed with regular letters of credit or mer­ chant letters of credit, were required to be accompanied by invoices legalized by Indonesian representatives in the country concerned. September 8. Bank Indonesia reinstated its swap facilities for authorized banks which had been suspended since August 18. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONE S IA October 29. Import lists A, B, C, and 4 were revised. Goods on lists C and D could only be imported with general exchange (Devisa Umum) and most goods on lists A and B either w i th general exchange or aid exchange (Devisa Kredit). A number of items were added to the prohibited import list. December 20. The official exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained unchanged at Rp 415 = U S $ 1. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts IRAN The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iranian R i a l. The official rates for the U. S. dollar, the only currency that is officially quoted, are R ls 76.25 buying, and R ls 76.50 selling, per U S $ 1. Exchange rates for currencies quoted by the commercial banks 1 are based on these buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the exchange rates of the currencies con­ cerned in London; the commercial banks are not per­ mitted to quote buying rates of less than R ls 75.00 per US$1 or selling rates higher than R ls 76.50 per US $ 1, and on December 31, 1971 their rates for the U. S dollar were the same as those at the Bank M a r k a zi Iran (the central bank). Exchange rates for currencies other than those mentioned above are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of their rates against the U. S. dollar in international exchange markets. The central bank publishes daily exchange rates for 13 cu r renc ie s1 for purposes of the calculation of import registration fees and import duties; these rates are based on the official rates for the U. S. dollar and the London market rates for the currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the central bank. A ll foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annually by the M in is try of Economy and approved by the Coun c il of Ministers. Import po l icy is formulated within an overall foreign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations with A lban ia, mainland Ch ina, Eastern Germany, and N o r th Ko rea are under the control of the Fore ign Transactions Corporation within the M in i s t ry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U. S. dollars, or the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one wh ich is quoted or previously quoted by the central bank .1 Transactions w i th the six countries with wh ich Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petro­ leum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U. S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor­ wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, w i th authorized banks; r ial accounts may be freely used only for payments in Iran, their conversion into foreign currencies being subject to central bank approval. Foreign nationals may also maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of foreign nationals may be used freely for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Iranian nationals may freely maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current accounts with domestic banks, a ll foreign exchange they receive other than export proceeds. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import L i s t, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the M in is t ry of Economy. The Import L ist distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Au tho r ized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic require­ ments, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to pr ior approval by government agencies (generally the M in is t ry of Economy) before the import order is placed. "Unau thor ized" imports are goods that may be permitted occasionally by the M in is t ry of Econ­ omy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. F or "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports without payment of "authorized" goods require pr ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Economy and the central bank; permission is given for the fo l low ing: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institutions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. The import of gifts, whether "authorized" or "unauthorized" commodities, is restricted to R ls 10,000 for each person a year. Specified commodities, such as sugar, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, payment for 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral export/import list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I R AN a ll commercial imports must be made through the official exchange market, with foreign exchange obtained from the banking system. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authorization for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to C i rcu lar N o. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. A ll other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. A ll orders for imports must be registered with the Bank M a r k a zi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat­ ing in Hong K o n g. No import registrations are accepted for commodities originating in Eastern Germany. At the time of registration of imports, an import registration fee of 5.5 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate of R ls 76.50 per US $ 1, is collected by authorized banks. The fee is charged on a ll imports except those brought in under the Law for the A t trac t ion and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran. Importers must at the same time deposit with the Bank M a r k a zi Iran, through an authorized bank, R ls 10, R ls 15, R ls 30, or R ls 75 (depending on the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment must be made against a documentary letter of credit.4 Th is deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The advance import deposit is not required for commodities which may be imported on a collection basis, whether they are in fact imported against a b i ll for collection or not. The central bank may permit the shifting of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required and financing must be on a letter of credit basis to the category in which bills for collection (with or without advance deposit) are permitted. Au thor ized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. App roval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. A lmost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial profit tax ranges from 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopo ly taxes are included in the commercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import L ist 4 For a few commodities subject to deposit, the central bank from time to time allows an ad hoc reduction of Rls 10 per US$1. 216 the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the pres­ entation of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or w i ll be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of or ig in. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Fore ign nationals work ing in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the Un i ted States, or the F ar East, and to US$100 for other countries except Rhodesia —may be sold by authorized banks upon presentation of the traveler's passport. F or children under 12 the allow­ ances in principle are 30 per cent of the above amounts, but in practice the fu ll allowances are granted. In addition, authorized banks may at any time sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of <£50 (US $ 1 3 0 ), against a written request, to Iranian nationals for assist­ ance to persons abroad or for other personal use without the submission of supporting documents, provided that the remittance is made in the form of a ma il or tele­ graphic transfer; authorized banks charge a commission of R ls 130 on each such transfer. Iranian nationals may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources other than exports; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Purchases of foreign currency from the banks for payments in respect of noncommercial invisibles not mentioned above require licenses from the central bank. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of R ls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel, for which the tax is R ls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7 to 18 years of age), v iz ., Rls 750 a person for p i lg r im­ ages and R ls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them R ls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passport. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufactured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive pay­ ments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The central bank offers preferential discount facilities for export b i l ls. The exporter must offer for surrender the foreign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, w i th in eight months after the goods have been exported. Au thor ized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Exporters who do not have foreign exchange proceeds from exports at their disposal may meet their surrender obligation by delivery of either foreign exchange from their own holdings or foreign exchange sold to an authorized bank by a th ird party; the central bank's permission is required to meet the surrender requirement through these alternative means. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder (except for payments in respect of commercial impor ts). The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the ma il is not permitted. Travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur­ rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely (except for payments in respect of com­ mercial impor ts), as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the Law for the A t trac t ion and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and IRAN regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activi­ ties in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with A r t ic le 1 of the Law for the Attraction and Protec­ tion of Foreign Investment and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of trans­ fer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be con­ verted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Cap i tal imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any l im it of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Iran; imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry consti­ tuting the personal effects of a traveler,5 require the pr ior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori­ ties; in practice, all imports of nonmonetary gold are made by the Bank M e l li Iran (an authorized commer­ c ial bank) and exports are prohibited. Imports of gold are free from customs duty and commercial benefit tax but are subject to the 5.5 per cent import registration fee. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Economy. Changes during 1971 January 1. Imports of nitrate-based and phosphate- based fertilizer were prohibited. January 12. The Japanese yen was officially quoted by the central bank. February 18. Imports of butter were freed from the prior approval requirement. March 21. The Export-Import Regulations for the Iranian year 1350 (M a r ch 21, 1971 to M a r ch 20, 1972) came into effect. The Minister of Economy was empow­ ered to lift the import prohibition on tires, television sets, radios, record players, o il and gas cookers, refrigerators, and cotton and synthetic textiles. March 21. In addition to the import registration fee 5 Such jewelry must have a cost of production equivalent to at least one fourth of the total value; the assessment is made by the customs. It must also meet the requirements set by the Iranian Institute of Standards. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN of 4 per cent of the value of imported goods, importers had to pay a commission of 1.5 per cent. May 7. The central bank suspended its quotations for deutsche mark and Netherlands guilders. Official quota­ tions were not resumed during 1971. June 22. The commission of 1.5 per cent on import registrations (see M a r ch 21, above) was abolished and the import registration fee was increased from 4 per cent to 5.5 per cent. July 1. The advance deposit for imports of butter was reduced from 100 per cent to 15 per cent. July 11. A decision to issue certain commemorative gold coins was announced; these would be legal tender. August 16. The central bank suspended a ll official exchange quotations except that for the U. S. dollar. It also limited its swap facility for commercial banks to the U. S. dollar. The bank continued to stand ready to buy and sell U. S. dollars at the previous official rates of R ls 76.25 and R ls 76.50. Commerc ial banks sus­ pended transactions in a ll foreign currencies except the U. S. dollar, wh ich they continued to buy and sell at R ls 76.25 and R ls 76.50. August 24. The commercial banks resumed transac­ tions in the foreign currencies whose official quotation had been suspended by the central bank. They based their rates for these currencies on the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the London market rates for the currencies concerned. The central bank continued to quote the U. S. dollar only, at R ls 76.25 and R ls 76.50. September 6. The advance import deposits for wheat, barley, and corn were lowered from 100 per cent to 15 per cent. December 21. The central bank maintained its official quotation for the U. S. dollar at R ls 76.25 and R ls 76.50. It d id not resume quotations for currencies previously officially quoted and there were no changes in exchange market practices. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi D inar. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. do l­ lar is ID 1 = US$3.04000. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currencies 1 or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. The Bank maintains a fixed buying rate of ID 1 = <£ stg. 1.166 for sterling, wh ich is the interven­ tion currency. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad; exemptions include amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to I raq is ). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 granted during any calendar year.2 Administration of Control The Board of Adm in is tra t ion of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted w i th a ll powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee (headed by the Governor of the Central Bank or his Depu ty ), to the Department of Fore ign Transfers of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Fore ign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Adm in i s­ tration. Import and export po l icy are determined by the Counc il for the Regulation of Domestic and Fore ign Trade. The Directorate-General of Imports in the M i n­ istry of Economy and the Directorate-General of Indus­ trial Development are the pr inc ipal licensing authori­ ties for imports and exports, but import licenses are also issued by certain other pub l ic organizations and government departments. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import pro­ gram are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed cur­ rencies 1 or, under the bilateral payments agreements with mainland Ch in a, Egypt, and Yugos lav ia, in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Trans- actions permitted in convertible currencies may alter­ natively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ord i­ nary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Furthermore, Iraq nationals who have been working abroad for at least a year or who become residents after having been nonresidents may open accounts in foreign currencies with banks in Iraq and credit these with up to 50 per cent of their foreign sav­ ings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, including imports for the holder's personal use, imports of certain capital goods, or meet­ ing expenditure abroad for travel, medical treatment, and study purposes; payments from these accounts up to the equivalent of ID 500 a year do not require Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca and a ll imports from Hong K o ng other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of some 118 commodities are prohibited from a ll sources. There is also a list of about 93 commodities whose import is sus­ pended. Imports of some 230 items, including jute, sugar, tea, edible olive o i l, certain medical supplies, machine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopoly. A ll private imports except those of the o il companies require licenses, virtually a ll of wh ich are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and equipment for industrial use. Some commodities may be imported only by government agencies or state trading companies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraq Government. A tax is levied on the amount of the import license at the following rates: Vi per m i ll for producer goods, 1 per m i ll for consumer goods, and, in addition, up to 15 per cent on any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of % per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 1 per cent on imports of consumer goods. A ll imports subject to import duty are also subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent of the appli­ cable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pres­ entation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro­ ner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 The tax was abolished on April 1, 1972. Payments for Invisibles W i th the exception of certain payments from for­ eign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I R AQ Accounts, above), a ll payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, edu­ cational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insur­ ance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resi­ dent in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this l im i t. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calen­ dar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, in addition to the basic travel allowance, and the equivalent of half of that allowance in foreign currency. Residents on a p i l­ grimage to Saudi A r ab ia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi A rab ian riyals ( ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equiva­ lent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on offi­ cial missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraq is). A l so exempt are any amounts financed from nonresident foreign currency accounts held by non­ resident Iraq nationals with banks in Iraq. The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calen­ dar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 (see footnote 2 ). Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfillment of certain formalities. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigov- ernment, and public utility departments; certain persons traveling for study purposes; foreigners, except non-Iraqi wives of Iraq nationals; and persons leaving on a p i l­ grimage. On leaving the country, Iraq nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to G u lf countries. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Hong K o n g, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The M in is t ry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agricultural products when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Coun­ c il for the Regulation of Domestic and Foreign Trade may also prohibit the export of certain commodities. A ll other exports are licensed freely. 220 Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the G u lf area (excluding Iran) and India are exempt from these requirements when their amount does not exceed ID 150. Some commodities may be exported on a compensation (bar­ ter) basis. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel cu r rency ), in unlimited amounts; provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form, they may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South A f r i c a, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. W i th minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits after income tax of foreign service companies is transferable. The transfer of profits net of income tax from foreign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial com­ panies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. A r ab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations and entitled to preferential treatment in several other respects. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. A ll transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Special facilities allow A r ab investors to bring in convertible currency freely through a licensed dealer for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible currency. S im i lar facilities permit Iraq nationals to bring in convertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the funds in foreign cur­ rency accounts, balances in wh ich are freely transferable abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion L aw (N o. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption during the first five years of profitable operation from income tax on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) a ll workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraq citizens or A rab s; (3) the value ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of machinery and tools required, excluding power- generating plants, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. S im i lar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw mate­ rials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanufactured products into finished prod­ ucts, including assembly. Under the Iraqization L aw of June 1961, a ll branches of foreign firms and a ll foreign- owned firms except banks 3 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraq nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in Iraq. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial pur­ poses; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under 3 A ll commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. I R AQ a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1971 August 16. The Central Bank suspended dealings in the listed currencies. Licensed dealers were authorized to continue certain types of transactions. August 23. The dinar remained pegged to sterling at ID 1 = <£ stg. 1.166. As a result, the dinar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the parity rate for which had previously been ID 1 = US$2 .80. The Central Bank quoted buying and selling rates for sterling only. The commercial banks resumed transactions in a ll listed currencies. August 28. A decision was taken to abolish the exchange tax on foreign exchange granted to persons leaving Iraq or residing abroad, with effect from A p r il 1, 1972. December 21. The par value of the dinar in terms of gold was maintained. The relationship to sterling also remained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became ID 1 = US$3 .04000. Iraq would avail itself of wider margins. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound. The effective parity relationship with the U. S. dollar is <£Ir 1 = US$2.60571. Transactions in sterling, which is Ireland's intervention currency, take place at parity. Exchange rates for the U. S. dollar may move within margins of up to 2}4 per cent from parity and rates for other currencies may fluctuate accordingly; as of December 31, 1971 the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were US$2.5529 and US$2.5527 per Irish pound. Certain capital transactions involving investment currency (see section on Cap i ta l, below) take place at different effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. M u ch of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agr icu l ture and Fisheries if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are admin­ istered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and pay­ ments to and from other parts of the Sterling A rea may be made freely in any Sterling A r ea currency; certain insurance payments within the Sterling A r e a, however, may be made in non-Sterling A r ea currencies. Au tho r­ ized payments to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non- Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling A rea other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of permitted exports to Rho­ desia must be received in non-Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian currency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling A rea are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in countries outside the Sterling A r ea are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the excep­ tion of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments author­ 222 ized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and w i th the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resident of a country outside the Sterling A r ea to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other Ex ternal Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho­ desia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and a ll debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. W i th this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of cer­ tain commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions, wh ich, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.1 Ind i­ vidual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to l im it the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain tex­ tiles and yarns originating in any of 16 specified coun­ tries or territories.2 A ll other imports are free of quanti­ tative restriction. Under the other type of control, pr ior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling A r e a, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. F or permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per­ mission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an Ex ternal Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding <£ 2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Sterling A r ea are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling A r e a. Payments to residents of countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea require approval. App rov al to make payments for most invisibles is given by the 1 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradually increased in accordance with an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements to date have been made on a global basis, although the obligation relates only to goods originating in the United Kingdom. 2 Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malay­ sia, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. F or tourist travel outside the Sterling A r ea (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of £ 2 50 a person for each tr ip. F or busi­ ness travel, up to £ 1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. App l ica t ions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. N ot more than £ 2 50 of an allow­ ance of non-Sterling A r ea currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons traveling to desti­ nations outside the Un i ted K ingdom (other than to Rho­ desia) may also take with them up to £ 25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Sterling A r ea (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any non-Sterling A r ea notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the Un i ted K ingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on the export of a number of items to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling A r ea must obtain payment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £ 1 0 0. When payment is received in non-Sterling A r ea currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £ 2 , 0 00 to countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if non-Sterling A r ea curren­ cies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. A ny non-Sterling A r ea currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for a ll transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling A r e a. A p p l i­ cations for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to countries outside the Sterling A r ea (other than to Rhodesia) are approved up to a l im it of £ 5 , 0 00 a family. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds £ 5 , 0 0 0, the transfer of the excess amount out­ side the Sterling A r ea is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresi­ dent, i.e., from the date of departure from Ireland. I R E L A ND Thereafter, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling A r ea residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred outside the Sterling A r ea through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Sterling A r ea securities. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emi­ gration are considered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but net inflows into the banks are subject to guidelines set annually by the Central Bank, purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the L and Commission. Incoming capital received in non-Sterling A r ea currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling A r ea securities 3 sold out­ side the Sterling A r ea may be fully reinvested in non- sterling securities, provided that the securities sold were held pr ior to A p r il 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is car­ ried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the secu­ rities sold were purchased with investment currency on or after A p r il 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale pro­ ceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Invest­ ment currency may be invested temporarily in certifi­ cates of deposit with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling A r ea are regarded as investment currency and are eligible for investment in non-Sterling A r ea securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale outside the Sterling A r ea of property for personal use owned by residents are normally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; in other cases the 25 per cent requirement is applied. Residents may obtain, subject to individual permission, reasonable amounts of investment currency to purchase from non-Sterling A rea residents property outside the Sterling A r ea for personal use; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with investment cur­ rency. App roval is normally limited to one property a family. Purchases from residents of the Sterling A r ea must be settled in sterling. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling A r e a. Dealings in Irish registered 3 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities expressed in the cur­ rency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian currency. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I R E L A ND securities are permitted freely between residents of the Sterling A r e a. Specific approval is required for a ll deal­ ings in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Banks may freely accept deposits in non-Sterling A r ea currency from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the A r e a. App l ica t ion must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrowing from nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a; such applications are considered on their merits and on the benefit l ike ly to accrue to the economy. Pub l ic sector borrowing outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea is undertaken following consultation w i th the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of non-Sterling A r ea diplo­ matic and consular missions in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely ho ld, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bu l l ion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. There are no restrictions on the import of gold coins or bu l­ l ion but the permission of the Central Bank is required for export. Such permission is not normally granted except to industrial users. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1971 February 1. Certain export credit guarantee arrange­ ments were introduced. April 1. Credit guidelines established by the Central Bank for the year to A p r il 1972 went into effect. In contrast to the previous ones, these were applied on the same basis to both associated and nonassociated banks. The guidelines envisaged no net inflow of capital into the banks from outside Ireland. July 1. The sixth annual reduction in protective duties on imports from the Un i ted K ingdom under the Ang lo-Ir ish Free Trade Agreement came into effect. Certain commodities, including footwear, were exempted from this round of tariff reductions. F or some other commodities, only modified reductions in tariffs were effected. August 16. The Central Bank informed banks of its readiness to continue to buy, at the rates prevailing at the close of business on August 13, non-Sterling A r ea currencies acquired from tourists or as a result of genuine commercial transactions. August 17. Dealings in all foreign currencies except sterling were suspended. Banks were informed that they could continue to convert, w i th in reasonable amounts, foreign currency for tourists. The Central Bank would purchase from banks, at a rate of US$2 .42 per £ Ir 1, any U. S. dollars acquired from tourists. August 23. Fore ign exchange dealings were resumed and took place at international market rates. The peg on sterling was maintained, the Cen tral Bank's pre- August 15 buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were revoked, and the Irish pound appreciated against the U . S. dollar from the previous level of £ Ir 1 = US$2 .40. August 31. To prevent speculative capital inflows into Ireland, or through Ireland into the Un i ted K ingdom, authorized banks were required to obtain Central Bank approval for the opening of Ex ternal Accounts or for­ eign currency accounts for nonresidents of the Sterling A rea where the amount placed therein exceeded £ 1 0 , 0 00 or its equivalent. In addition, a ll transactions in nonresidents' accounts, whether the accounts were opened prior to or subsequent to this notice, and where the amount of the transactions exceeded £ 1 0 , 0 00 or its equivalent, also required pr ior approval. Exchange control approval was also required un t il further notice for the sale to, or acquisition on behalf of, nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea of Br i t ish Treasury b i l ls, sterling certificates of deposit and B r i t ish Government, Br i t ish Government-guaranteed, and B r i t ish local authority securities w i th a fixed maturity date earlier than Octo­ ber 1, 1976. October 7. A scheme of concessionary interest rates for exports of capital goods on credit terms of one to five years came into effect. October 19. Under the Exchange Con t rol Regula­ tions, 1971 the buying, borrowing, selling, or lending of gold coins by persons in Ireland were exempted from the provisions of Section 4 of the Exchange Con t rol A c t, 1954. Previously, domestic transactions in gold coins were restricted. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. As a result, the Irish pound remained at par w i th the pound sterling. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became £ Ir 1 = US$2 .60571. The Government announced that it would avail itself of margins of up to 2V± per cent except in the case of sterling, where the existing practice of deal­ ing at parity would continue. December 21. The restrictions introduced on August 31 on the opening of and transactions in non­ resident accounts, and on transactions in certain U. K. money paper and securities by nonresidents of the Ster­ l ing A r ea were removed. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211588 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound. A central rate of I £ 4 . 20 per US$1 has been established and Israel avails itself of wider margins of up to 2Vt per cent. The Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 were I £ 4 . 20 and I £ 4 . 2 0 3, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Con t rol of the M in is try of Finance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation with other gov­ ernment agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur­ rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which pay­ ments agreements are in force 1 are usually made in U. S. dollars as an accounting unit. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign cur­ rency accounts or on local currency accounts. The p r in­ cipal type of nonresident foreign currency account is the P A T A CH account. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held in the account into local cur­ rency at the official rate of exchange. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of three types: (1) Registered Accounts —for payments to and holdings of foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for holdings of former residents — may be established only with special approval. A v i a­ tion, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local require­ ments; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securities, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I <£ 150 a day for the account holder and for each member of his family, for remittances of up to I £ 5 , 0 00 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former invest­ ments that are not eligible for transfer at the official 1 Brazil, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Portugal. rate and funds left behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing for­ eign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same pur­ poses as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. (3) Other non­ resident accounts in local currency may be used to ho ld funds derived from former investments that are eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Balances may be transferred between nonresidents. The accounts may be liquidated at any time by the purchase of foreign exchange at the official rate; such foreign exchange may freely be transferred abroad or credited to a P A T A CH account. Otherwise, funds in these accounts may be used within Israel, and no limit is placed on the amount that may be withdrawn. Israeli citizens who are temporarily living and earn­ ing abroad may maintain foreign currency in temporary P A M AZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may only convert these funds into local currency at the official exchange rate. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either P A Z AK accounts, which may be held by all recipients of for­ eign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated from domestic sources, or T A M AM accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and disability pensions. P A Z AK accounts are demand or time deposit accounts denominated in convertible currencies and earning inter­ est at a maximum rate of 6 per cent if the account has been held for a period of one year. A ll foreign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the M in is try of Finance but including export pro­ ceeds, may be placed in P A Z AK accounts. Account holders may retain funds in this manner or may exchange them into local currency. As an inducement to export, those exporters who are account holders may use foreign exchange balances in P A Z AK accounts to make any authorized foreign payments. Balances in P A Z AK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but P A Z AK accounts may be registered in the names of members of the immediate family of the account holder. T A M AM accounts are time deposit accounts in con­ vertible currencies and bearing maximum interest at 41L> per cent if held for one year. One third of converti­ ble exchange receipts derived from personal restitution payments and from pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served during Wo r ld War II may be credited to 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I S R A EL T A M AM accounts. The permitted uses of T A M AM accounts include the following: (1) the purchase through the medium of the authorized bank holding the account of securities denominated in convertible foreign cur­ rency that are registered on an official stock exchange in specified foreign countries; (2) payment of premiums on existing life insurance policies denominated in for­ eign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equivalent of US$250 a trip, provided that not more than the equivalent of US$1 ,200 per annum is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his family; and (4) payment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. N A T AD accounts are transfer accounts in foreign exchange that are used mainly for transactions in for­ eign securities. Holders of T A M AM accounts may pur­ chase abroad foreign securities denominated in con­ vertible foreign currency and registered on an official stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded freely among residents, provided that payments for such securities are effected with N A T AD or T A M AM funds or in Israel pounds. If the original buyer resells securities bought with T A M AM account funds for foreign currency he may deposit the proceeds in T A M AM accounts. Resi­ dents who are not holders of T A M AM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in N A T AD accounts. Balances in N A T AD accounts may be used to purchase further foreign securities but are not negotiable between resi­ dents. If foreign securities are sold between residents against Israel pounds, the conversion factor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called N A T AD rate. On December 31, 1971, it stood at I £ 4 . 23 per U. S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from a ll sources and a ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll commodities whose importation is not liberalized are listed in a Negative L is t. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about 30 per cent of total imports in 1971) need not be approved as importers by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of a ll licensing and administrative or quantitative restriction. A ll other imports are subject to licensing. F or com­ modities on the Automatic App roval L ist (about 40 per cent of total impor ts), licenses are issued auto­ matically upon application. A ll other permissible imports constitute the Restricted L is t. A ll ind iv idual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Con t rol of the M in i s t ry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. 226 Six basic food products (frozen meat, m i lk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted auto­ matically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the foreign currency required may be purchased at the time of opening the credit; funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account w i th the Bank of Israel un t il transfer is made. Licenses are not issued for imports of goods on con­ signment unless the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local currency with the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is va l id only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Fore ign Exchange Con t rol is required for a ll imports effected under foreign credits. Importers are required to deposit with the customs, at the time of paying the import duty and for a period of six months, 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports .2 Exempt are commodities subject to customs duty at a rate of less than 50 per cent, imports by or for the Government, immigrants' personal effects, and gifts. The funds are kept on deposit in the Bank of Israel and interest of 6 per cent per annum is received by the importer. V i r tu a l ly a ll imports are subject to an import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The main exemptions are for fuels, certain basic foodstuffs, and uncut diamonds. A purchase tax is levied on almost a ll imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$ 10-250, wh ich is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, membership dues, and registration in a university. F or tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$250 a traveler for each journey. N ot more than I £ 100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign cur­ rency up to US$30. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax; for travel by sea, the tax is I £ 5 50 plus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket, and for travel by air, I £ 5 95 plus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket. Exporters doing more than US$100 ,000 of export business a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Immigrants and their families are exempt from travel tax for three years from the date of imm i­ gration or of entry as temporary residents. 2 The rate of deposit was reduced to 30 per cent on January 1, 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. F or some commodities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content wh ich are made with bilateral partners; this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a P A Z AK account. Exports of most commodities are eligible for incentive payments based on value added and designed to rebate estimated internal indirect taxes and the import surcharge. The payment for diamonds is 7 agorot per US$1 equivalent. F or other commodi­ ties the payment ranges from 85 to 89 agorot per US$1 equivalent, with the higher rates applicable to com­ modities with a higher proportion of domestic value added. F or inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebate of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in for­ eign exchange on P A Z AK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. A ny resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. One third of the foreign exchange received by resi­ dents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in W o r ld War II, may be retained in T A M AM accounts. For ten years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they w i ll need during their stay. Not more than I £ 1 00 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I . £ 1 50 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families; if they are holders of other nonresident local currency accounts, they may draw on them without l im i t. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a P A Z AK account. Cap i tal brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the L aw for the Encouragement of I S R A EL Cap i tal Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer a ll his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repay­ ment and amortization of capital may also be trans­ ferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be with­ drawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fulfill one of the following conditions: (1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; or (3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area, its production is of the import- substitution type. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other invest­ ment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to transfer abroad the principal or the inter­ est or profits on his investment are concerned. The difference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Every investment in real estate (held for at least five years prior to November 1971), debentures registered at the stock exchange, or shares that was made in Israel after M ay 15, 1948 in foreign currency that was con­ verted into Israel pounds as the law required, or that was made in Israel pounds derived from the conversion of foreign currency, or in State of Israel bonds that may be used for investment purposes upon maturity, entitles the nonresident or immigrant concerned (providing in the latter case that the investment was implemented before his settling permanently in Israel) to transfer abroad the proceeds of the liquidation of his investment by purchasing foreign currency at the official exchange rate. (For immigrants, this right is limited to the first ten years of their residence in Israel.) As regards income from such investments (including profits distributed in the form of bonus shares), this principle applies only to securities registered at the stock exchange or to income credited to a B locked Account in the name of the bene­ ficiary after January 1, 1968. In respect of investments made by nonresidents to which the above principle does not apply —either as regards the principal or earnings— the proceeds of liquidation and the earnings must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t. An investment made from monies in a Registered Accoun t, or from amounts which the owner was legally obliged from the outset to deposit in a Registered Accoun t, can only be liquidated by crediting the proceeds and the income to a Registered Accoun t. No rma l ly, the Registered Account must be credited with every right accruing in Israel to a foreign resident, subject to the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I S R A EL Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. A ny resident may retain property abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from property; new immigrants may retain l iqu id assets as we l l. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of T A M AM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at stock exchanges in speci­ fied foreign countries. Foreign securities purchased to the debit of a T A M AM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel against foreign currency to owners of other T A M AM or N A T AD deposits. The proceeds of the sale can then be credited to the T A M AM account previously debited with the purchase. The owner of foreign securities bought through T A M AM or N A T AD accounts is allowed to sell them also against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his turn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to holders of T A M AM or N A T AD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a N A T AD account. Th is is the only manner in which N A T AD accounts can be established. The holder of a N A T AD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a T A M AM or N A T AD account foreign cur­ rency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in T A M AM and N A T AD accounts, the procedure being the same. A general license allows authorized dealers to pur­ chase real estate in Israel for nonresidents. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares, provided that purchases are financed with converted foreign currency; debentures, however, may be purchased by nonresidents only if they are quoted on the T el A v iv stock exchange. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of T A M AM or N A T AD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches. It is forbidden to trade in gold, to transfer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. G o ld can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are transacted by five importing wholesalers. These wholesalers may sell the gold only to purchases registered with the Purchase Tax Adm in is tra t ion. The latter checks these purchases by each manufacturer against the gold content of products marked as "purchase tax pa id" in order to eliminate the possibility of sales of these quantities of gold on the market as bu l l ion. 228 Changes during 1971 D u r i ng the year, further import items were added to the Free Import Orders L i st or transferred from the Restricted L i st to the Au toma t ic App rov al L i s t. January 1. The import deposit requirement was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. January 1. The 20 per cent import surcharge was extended to M a r ch 31, 1972. January 1. The third round of tariff concessions under the Kennedy Round was implemented. In addition, reductions were announced in import duties on domes­ tically produced goods. Th is was the second stage in the Government's plan to facilitate the access of imported goods to the Israel market. Further reductions were to take place on January 1 of each year 1972 through 1974. January 1. The second reduction in duties on imports from the E EC under the preferential trade agreement with the E EC took effect. April 1. The system of export incentives was reorga­ nized and for many commodities these were increased. They now ranged from I £ 0 . 72 per US$1 of exports for goods with up to 25 per cent of value added to I £ 1.12 per US$ 1 for those with more than 65 per cent of value added. Since August 1970, the incentives had ranged between I £ 0 . 70 and I £ 1.05 per U S $ 1. August 16. At the request of the Cen tral Bank, the banks suspended foreign exchange dealings except in U. S. dollars. The Central Bank maintained its official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar, which remained based on the relationship of I £ 3 . 50 = U S $ 1. The banks resumed trading on August 23. August 21. The par value was changed from 0.253906 to 0.211588 gram of fine gold, or from I £ 3 . 50 to I £ 4 . 20 per U S $ 1. An inventory tax was imposed on producers and importers who sold goods, purchased at prices based on the o ld rate of exchange, at prices corre­ sponding to the new par value. Subsequently, certain export incentives were reduced. The maximum incentive was reduced from the equivalent of I £ 1 . 12 to I £ 0 . 91 per U S $ 1. November 26. Nonresidents selling to residents real estate in Israel that they had purchased with foreign exchange but had held less than five years were no longer permitted to convert the full local currency pro­ ceeds into foreign currency; such conversion was limited to the equivalent of the original purchase price, plus 7 per cent per annum. The remaining funds were required to be deposited in a Registered Accoun t. December 20. A central rate of I £ 4 . 20 per US$1 was established. The Government also announced that it would avail itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY* Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian L i r a. A central rate of L it 581.500 = US$1 has been established, and Italy avails itself of wider margins of up to 2lA per cent. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U. S. dollars, the intervention currency, are maintained between official limits of L it 568.40 buy­ ing, and L it 594.60 selling, per U S $ 1. Ma rket rates for certain other cu r renc ie s1 vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The monetary authorities do not in principle intervene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces, although the Bank of Italy (the central bank) may from time to time offer the commercial banks cer­ tain swap facilities. Au tho r ized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally con­ vertible European currencies, when dealing w i th other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of forward transactions against lire is subject to a l im it on net transactions set ind i­ vidually for each bank. Fo rwa rd cover is freely per­ mitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Camb i) on the basis of instructions issued by the M in i s t ry of Fo r­ eign Trade. A ll sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M i n­ istry of Finance at the request of the M in is t ry of Fo r­ eign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the Na t ional Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic * With effect from April 24, 1972, Italy observed narrower exchange rate margins for the currencies of the EEC member countries. Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs, which currencies are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies. These currencies and the Canadian dollar are referred to in the Italian regulations as convertible currencies or conto valutario currencies. of San M a r ino or Va t ican C i ty are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Special arrangements are applicable under debt liquidation agreements with Egypt, Turkey, and Yugos lav ia. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which non­ residents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Cap i tal Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Cap i tal Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under L aw N o. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with pay­ ments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Cap i tal Accoun t, or Special Account Under L aw N o. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for cur­ rent and capital transactions, for payments due to resi­ dents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under L aw N o. 43, and from other Cap i tal Accounts, with Italian banknotes (in denominations not exceeding L it 10,000) sent direct to the Bank of Italy's head office by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the l iqu i­ dation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law N o. 211 of M a r ch 2, 1948 or Law N o. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see be low ). Bank­ notes for deposit in Cap i tal Accounts must be received by parcel post in official ma il bags dispatched from foreign banks with head offices abroad. Cap i tal Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Cap i tal Account or to Fore ign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under L aw N o. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of Febru­ ary 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accord­ ance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I T A LY currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with L aw N o. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and ba l­ ances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Cap i tal Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under L aw N o. 43. Nonresidents may also maintain Fore ign Accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of Rhodesian or ig in are prohibited. Practically a ll imports from other countries except Japan, mainland Ch ina, N o r th V i e t -N am, and the C M EA countries are free of quantitative restriction; all goods, however, require a bank certificate for submis­ sion to the customs authorities and sometimes also a license issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance at the request of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Commodities that s t i ll require ind iv idual licenses when imported from these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import)2 which includes goods listed under some 25 tariff headings or their parts. Some items in the list require an import license only when originating in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Egypt and Yugos lav ia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports of raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum from Egypt, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European O E CD countries. (Seventy per cent of the value of other imports from Egypt must be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in any O E CD country, and 30 per cent must be paid in lire to Egypt's lire account w i th the Italian Exchange Office.) A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when originating in and imported from A lb an i a, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, N o r th Ko rea, Mongo l ia, Po land, Rumania, the U. S. S. R ., or N o r th V i e t -N am. The list includes some 110 tariff items or subitems related to agricultural products and foodstuffs, and about 840 tariff items or subitems related to other goods. There is a special list of commodities, also included in Tabella B Import, whose importation is unilaterally and de facto liberalized when they both originate in and are shipped from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, H u n­ gary, Po land, Rumania, or the U. S. S. R. These goods may be admitted by the customs without a license, although some require a visa issued by the Institute of Fore ign Trade. A similar list exists for mainland Ch ina and Eastern Germany. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods (listed under some 78 tariff items or sub- items at the end of 1971) that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported from that country; some 130 other items or subitems are included in a special list of commodities for wh ich import licenses are issued freely. A ll other goods of Japanese origin 3 may be imported freely without an ind iv idual license, irrespective of the country from wh ich they are shipped. Imports from n o n - E EC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced a ll previous barriers to imports; common E EC regulations are also applied to imports from n o n - E EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. F or imports not exceeding L it 1 m i l l ion in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from L it 1 m i l l ion to L it 2 m i l l ion in value, a form com­ pleted by the importer is required; for imports over L it 2 m i l l ion in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through wh ich he must carry out a ll payments opera­ tions related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 30 days before importation. F or a ll authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian l i re to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate pay­ ment terms are observed (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding L it 1 m i l l i on in value, or any lower amount w i th in the limits estab­ lished for each country to wh ich this service is pro­ vided; amounts in excess of L it 1 m i l l ion must be approved by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having juris­ diction for the area concerned. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on invest­ ments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and w i th in the limits established for each country; for pay- 2 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except Albania, Bul­ garia, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 A ll goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of Circular No. 606360 of May 28, 1963 (as amended). 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments exceeding L it 1 m i l l ion, however, pr ior author­ ization is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the M i n i s­ try of Fore ign Trade or the M in i s t ry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) con­ tracts wh ich require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries 4 and (2) contracts wh ich require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresi­ dents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (exclud­ ing charters for a single trip); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of opera­ t ion; news agencies and newspaper correspondents (for amounts exceeding L it 5 m i l l ion a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights, information agen­ cies, etc. (for amounts exceeding L it 5 m i l l ion for each contract); copyrights (for amounts exceeding L it 5 m i l­ lion a year for each contract); services of professional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding L it 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and athletes (for amounts exceeding L it 5 m i l l ion). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinema­ tography; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of operation;5 and other transactions not permitted by general authorization (when the amounts involved exceed L it 1 m i l l ion ). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to L it 1 m i l l ion for each trip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel is L it 500,000); banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. To the extent that he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to L it 1 m i l l i o n .6 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as L it 100,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding L it 1 m i l l ion in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from 4 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Khmer Republic, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. 5 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. 6 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 50,000 a day in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins com­ bined. I T A LY L it 1 m i l l ion to L it 2 m i l l ion in value, a form com­ pleted by the exporter is required; for exports exceed­ ing L it 2 m i l l ion in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out the payments operations related to his export transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after exportation. Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment (see section on Cap i ta l, below), exchange receipts must be collected within 360 days of ship­ ment, and they must be offered for sale to an author­ ized bank within 30 days of receipt. Proceeds in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in M i l an and Rome). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts within the limits established for ind iv id­ ual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same co l­ lection and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally con­ vertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of L it 200,000 in foreign banknotes left over from trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any k ind from non­ residents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the M in i s t ry of the Treasury or the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade, respec­ tively, except, with regard to O E CD countries, long- term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or main­ taining lasting economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and, with regard to E EC countries, short-term (up to one year and not 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I T A LY exceeding L it 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding L it 250 m i l l ion) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial opera­ tions or the performance of services); for none of these is any k ind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law N o. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent implementing regu­ lations. D irect investment in O E CD countries by physical or jur id ical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any form and without any l im i t. D irect investment in other countries may be made only (under the supervision of the Italian Exchange Office) by jur id ical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the invest­ ment; other types of direct investment in such coun­ tries require special authorization from the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these invest­ ments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (after crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those estab­ lished for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of L it 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any k ind (including mutual funds) requires prior approval by the Italian Exchange Office. In practice, however, a resident is able freely to purchase shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including that of investing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and that of setting up a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authori­ zation to purchase real estate in E EC countries. A ll issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the M i n­ istry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue in Italy of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond L it 500 m i l l ion, that of the M in is t ry of the Treasury, the M in is t ry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to international institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, 232 and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of L it 6 m i l l ion a person upon presentation of specified docu­ ments to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder subject to examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office, when resi­ dence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importa­ tion is to take place within 30 days; in a ll other cases, the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade is required. When prepayments for imports exceed L it 5 m i l l ion, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such payments require the pr ior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In a ll other cases, the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in a ll other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent w i th in 360 days after exportation, and the balance w i th in 24 months after exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the pr ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. V i r tua l ly identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with E EC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of E EC countries as indicated above. Au thor ized banks must as a general rule maintain approximately balanced foreign exchange positions, i.e., they have been requested not to maintain a net foreign credit or debit position. The major banks have agreed not to pay interest on nonresident lire accounts. The export of Italian and foreign securities is per­ mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Cap i tal Account. Gold Residents may freely ho ld and negotiate gold in any form in Italy. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the M in is t ry of the Treasury may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Imports of wrought and semimanufactured gold, including jewelry, are subject to licensing. Exports of wrought and semimanufactured gold other than jewelry also require licenses. Commer­ cial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are liberalized for most countries of origin. Changes during 1971 January 7. The prescribed terms for the settlement of trade transactions and transactions in services were modified. Henceforth, the collection of credits and the payment of debts had to take place as follows: for exports, w i th in 360 days following or preceding the shipment; and for imports, w i th in 360 days following the importation for postpayment or w i th in 30 days pre­ ceding the importation for prepayment. Previously, the period w i th in wh ich export proceeds and proceeds from services must normally be received was 120 days after shipment. January 12. Purchases by residents of shares of for­ eign financial institutions required the pr ior authoriza­ tion of the Italian Exchange Office. The requirement that such shares be listed on at least three foreign stock exchanges of prime importance was abolished. July 1. A Presidential Decree of February 18 modi­ fied the customs regulations and procedures substan­ tially in order to harmonize them with legislation in the other E EC member countries. August 2. L aw N o. 447 of June 24 abolished the administrative charge and the statistical charge on imports. ( F or imports from E EC countries, they had not been levied since Ju ly 23, 1971.) August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar ( L it 620.50 and L it 629.50) were suspended, but the par value was maintained. It was announced that the Exchange Office would continue its exchange market intervention, but that intervention henceforth might take place outside the previous limits of 0.75 per cent either side of the parity for the U. S. dollar. As a result, the l i ra began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. August 23. The Bank of Italy instructed commercial banks to bring their external positions into balance by September 15, 1971, and from then on to maintain a I T A LY trade agreement with rigorously balanced position. Previously, although required in principle to maintain a balanced position, they were permitted to incur a foreign debit position equivalent to their new export financing in foreign currencies. September 15. The State Electricity Au thor i ty ( E N E L) announced that it would repay prematurely a US$300 m i l l ion Euro-dollar loan raised in A p r il 1970. (Du r ing the year, a number of other advance repay­ ments of public sector borrowing from nonresidents took place or were announced.) November 1. A three-year mainland Ch ina was signed. November 24. The approval requirements for imports of petroleum products in compensation transactions were modified. December 4, A new type of nonresident l i ra account, the N Accoun t, was introduced. The opening and operation of new nonresident Cap i tal Accounts hence­ forth required pr ior authorization by the Italian Exchange Office, and such accounts could take the form only of N Accounts. A ll transfers between N Accounts on one hand and Cap i tal Accounts or Fo r­ eign Accounts on the other were subject to prior approval. Security portfolios corresponding to N Accounts were also marked N and were subject to similar supervision. These measures were revoked on December 20. December 4. Italian banknotes in denominations of less than L it 10,000, as well as a ll Italian coins, were credited to N Accounts when remitted from abroad. A general permission, however, allowed the transfer of such funds from N Accounts to Foreign Accounts, so that they remained convertible into foreign currency. These measures were revoked on December 20. December 4. Commercial banks were instructed to convert foreign currencies into lire only when the former resulted from actual payments to residents cor­ responding to normal trade, services, or capital trans­ actions between residents and nonresidents. Nonresi­ dents were not permitted to constitute l iqu id lire assets without an underlying transaction, and banks were authorized to refuse the conversion of foreign currency into lire if no reason was given. These measures were revoked on December 20. December 4. A ll inward direct investment required pr ior approval by the Exchange Institute. The measure was revoked on December 20. December 13. The Bank of Italy requested commer­ c ial banks to stop paying interest on a ll nonresident lire accounts, including those opened pr ior to Decem­ ber 13, 1971. W i th effect from December 15, the major banks complied. December 20. A central rate of L it 581.500 = US$1 was established. Italy availed itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. New official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were set at L it 568.40 and L it 594.60. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans­ actions in F rench francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the F rench F ranc A r ea take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on par values and central rates in the official exchange market or at fluctuating rates in the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the offi­ c ial exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settle­ ments with foreign countries, as well as a ll transactions in banknotes, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and T e r r i­ tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub­ ject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub- Directorate of External Finance and Credit of the Directorate of Pub l ic Accounts and the Treasury in the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance, which also super­ vises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer­ ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, foreign inward direct investment, and a ll outward investment in 11 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 234 foreign countries. The B C E AO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either direct or through the inter­ mediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries pub l ic. A ll exchange trans­ actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Sub- Directorate for Licenses and Foreign Trade Regulations in the Directorate of Econom ic Affairs and Ex ternal Econom ic Relations. Import attestations for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French F ranc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle­ ments w i th France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea are made in C FA francs, F rench francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in F rench francs through Fore ign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO bank­ notes, F rench banknotes, and banknotes of any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Ab id jan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of such banknotes is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Cer ta in imports from the Canary Islands, mainland Ch in a, H o ng K o n g, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. A few imports from all sources are prohib­ ited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (e.g., sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of cer­ tain commodities, including rice, are l inked to pur­ chases of the domestic product. A ll other imports from countries in the French F ranc A r ea may be made freely. V i r tua l ly a ll imports originating in and shipped from E EC countries other than France also are free from quantitative restrictions. As a rule, imports from n o n - E EC countries outside the F rench F ranc A r ea require import licenses and may be made in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accordance with an import program, which is deter­ mined annually by the Directorate of Economic Affairs and External Econom ic Relations. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports from such countries and special quotas for imports from countries with which Ivory Coast maintains bilateral trade agreements.2 The program also includes indicative quotas for the E EC countries. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to industrial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, contained in separate liberalized lists, may be imported freely from any source, from the former O E EC countries, or from Canada and the Un i ted States, respectively. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi­ ties have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A rea are per­ mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per­ mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 150,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll basic salary of a foreigner work ing in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, or bank­ notes issued by other Operations Account countries up to C F AF 10,000. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the U M O A, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may 3 Algeria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Egypt, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Nor­ way, Poland, Rumania, Sweden, Switzerland, and Tunisia. I V O RY C O A ST take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equiva­ lent of C F AF 25,000 if they made no currency declara­ tion upon entry. Otherwise, they may take out the amount declared, after adjustment for any amounts con­ verted into C FA francs or drawn against a Fore ign Account in Francs in Ivory Coast. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and Fo r­ eign Trade Regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera­ tions Account country must be surrendered within two months of the due date but not, in principle, more than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destina­ t ion. A ll export transactions relating to foreign coun­ tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at over C F AF 250,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital A ll capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other coun­ tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over a ll outward investment in foreign coun­ tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those relating to for­ eign securities, these control measures do not apply 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I V O RY C O A ST to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun­ tries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institu­ tions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building opera­ tions abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of E con­ omy and F inance .3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The liquidation of invest­ ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the M in is ter. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest­ ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest­ ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authoriza­ tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authori­ zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as ind i­ cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa­ nies in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. 236 authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those men­ tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was sub­ ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authori­ zation. The lending of C FA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted. L aw N o. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having pr ior i ty status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Bo th licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 January 16. Foreign correspondents of authorized banks could have their Fore ign Accounts in Francs credited with B C E AO banknotes and banknotes of other institutes of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, provided such banknotes were mailed direct from abroad to the A b i d­ jan agency of the B C E A O. April 14. The amount below which import transac­ tions were exempt from domiciliation was increased from C F AF 20,000 to C F AF 500,000 (unless payment was made before customs clearance). April 20. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 75,000 a person a year to C F AF 100,000 a person a year. August 14. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. August 30. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Ivory Coast. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Fore ign Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I V O RY C O A ST in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 7. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was further increased to the equivalent of C F AF 150,000 a person a year. September 7. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. September 7. The exchange allocations for family remittances, dowries, students' expenses abroad, and transfers of emigrants' assets were increased. September 16. Fore ign workers who on August 30 had been in Ivory Coast less than two years could transfer direct to a F inanc ial Account in Francs up to C F AF 250,000 of any balance they held in a Foreign Account in Francs on August 30. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on December 28.) December 10. The lending of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years was freely permitted. December 24. The exchange rate for the French franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Jamaica Do l l a r. Sterling is the intervention currency and exchange rates are maintained within 21/i per cent either side of the effective parity against sterling of J $l = <£ stg. 0.50. In practice, the Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to trans­ actions in sterling and to purchases of U. S. and Cana­ dian banknotes; it continues to buy and sell sterling at par, plus a 0.75 per cent commission on the selling side. Exchange rates for other currencies (except the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the T r in idad and Tobago dollar, which also have a fixed official relationship with sterling) are based on the buying and selling rates in international markets. The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealing with the banks in U. S. dollars and Canadian dollars against sterling on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New Y o r k; on December 31, 1971, the official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar against sterling were US$2.5573 and US$2 .5501, respectively. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers in transactions up to J$25,000 invo lv ing Jamaica dollars against U. S. or Canadian dollars. The Bank maintains fixed buying and selling rates % of 1 per cent either side of parity for the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the T r in idad and Tobago do l lar; for transactions in these currencies, the commercial banks charge a commission of % of 1 per cent, buying and selling. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling; on December 31, 1971, these charges on dealings in sterling with the com­ mercial banks were n il on inward transfers and 94 of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The commercial banks apply the same commission charges in dealing with their customers, with an additional charge of Vw of 1 per cent on inward telegraphic transfers of less than J$ 1,000 and Vs of 1 per cent on inward transfers of less than this amount in the form of demand or sight items. The result is a selling rate of J$2.0150 per £ stg. 1 and buying rates of J$2.00 for transactions of more than J$ 1,000, J$ 1.99875 for telegraphic transfers of less than J$ 1,000, and J$ 1.9975 for demand or sight drafts of less than J$ 1,000. F or dealings in East Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, and T r in idad and Tobago do l­ lars, however, the commercial banks charge a com­ mission of % of 1 per cent, buying and selling. There is a "bourse" (interbank exchange market) in which a ll commercial banks participate and in which only U. S. dollars and Canadian dollars are traded. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le 238 V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance and Planning, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the M in is ter is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to provide foreign exchange for imports up to J$ 10,000, and for basic travel allowances and cer­ tain other payments up to specified lesser amounts. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the M in is ter of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling A r ea and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling A r ea countries. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling A rea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling A rea my be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency that is also a non-Sterling A r ea currency .1 Receipts from countries outside the Sterling A r ea must be received by debit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia, and a ll payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Jamaica dollars m iy be held by persons who are regarded for exchange control purposes as normally permanently resident outside Jamaica. These accounts are further designated Sterling A r ea Accounts, External Accounts, or B locked Accounts. Sterling A r ea Accounts are accounts of persons normally resident in the Sterling A r ea but outside Jamaica. Balances in these accounts are freely trans­ ferable w i th in the Sterling A r e a. Payments out of such accounts to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea are subject to approval by the exchange control authorities of the territory where the account holder is regarded as normally resident. Commerc ial banks are authorized to operate Sterling A r ea Accounts in the names of their customers and are allowed to accept Jamaica dollars for credit to these accounts on ly under circumstances specified by the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a, except Rhodesia. 1 A ll currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. A ll foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to Ex ternal Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling A r ea approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or non-Sterling A rea currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of non- Sterling A r ea currencies. Accounts which are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea (proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated B locked Accoun ts. B locked funds may be invested in Jamaica dollar securities; the income from such securities is normally available for credit to an Ex ternal Accoun t. Funds originally held on a Blocked Account and the proceeds of securities pur­ chased w i th blocked funds are normally available for credit to an Ex ternal Account five years after the date of b lock ing. App l ica t ions for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Fo l low­ ing the Un i ted K ingdom's decision in 1966 to dispense with B locked Accounts for nonresidents of the Sterling A rea, Jamaica decided to continue b lock ing procedures but on a less r ig id basis. The assets of residents emi­ grating to countries outside the Sterling A r e a, however, are restricted for a period of four years; similar restric­ tions were imposed in 1971 on the assets of residents emigrating to countries within the Sterling A r e a. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 V i r tu a l ly all imports from C A R I F TA countries are unrestricted. Imports originating in Rho­ desia are prohibited and all imports originating in main­ land Ch ina, Japan, the C M EA countries, South A f r i c a, or Cuba require individual import licenses. Licenses for most imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essentiality. A number of tariff items or groups of tariff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to ind iv idual licensing irrespective of country of origin unless (for some of the items in this schedule) the goods originate in and are consigned from other C A R I F TA countries (Antigua, Barbados, British Honduras, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. K i t ts -Nev is -Angu i l la, St. Lu c i a, St. Vincent, or T r in idad and Tobago ). The special schedule comprises (1) goods for wh ich specific 2 The open general license applies to all countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Cub a, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Nor th Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South A fr ica, U. S. S. R ., and Nor th V i e t -Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. J A M A I CA quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e. g., certain types of footwear (for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade A d­ ministrator against allotted quotas); (2) goods which are prohibited, e. g., automobiles with a wheel base over 116 inches, canned m i lk, cement, cigars, citrus products, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; and (3) goods the licensing of wh ich depends upon local supply, e. g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports equivalent to J$ 10,000 or more are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met, and the importer presenting a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent consumption tax (2V> per cent on coloring materials), whether they are imported or manufactured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs, plus the customs duty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions invo lv ing residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Bona fide current payments are not restricted. App roval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. F or payments for certain other purposes, e. g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of J$500 for each journey for foreign travel other than for business and profes­ sional reasons is made available automatically to resi­ dents by the authorized dealers; the central bank authorizes the release of any additional amounts for bona fide tourist travel. Facilities for travel l or business and professional reasons may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J $40 a day for a period of one month, while applications for higher amounts are dealt with by the central bank. Expenses for hotel accommo­ dations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocations. Au thor ized dealers may, subject to the pre­ sentation of supporting evidence, approve payments for the fo l low ing: refunds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees without l im i t, as we ll as transfers from the M in is t ry of External Affairs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, H igh Commis­ sioners, and diplomats; up to a l im it of J$2,000 for (1) 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J A M A I CA advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and refund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscriptions to trade organizations; up to a l im it of J$4,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; up to a limit of J$5,000, specified payments that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured parties under life or endowment insurance policies, and agents' expenses and fees due by Jamaican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies. Requests for addi­ tional amounts or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e. g., remittances by charitable insti­ tutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding J$200. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll goods valued at not more than J $20 may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited l i s t .3 Where the value exceeds J$20, the goods may be exported to a ll countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bu l l ion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, and any amount of other banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to a local authorized dealer upon return. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Residents must obtain 3 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. 240 prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, wh ich are normally limited to J$500 in a calendar year from each donor, to nonresidents of Jamaica. W i th the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, a ll direct investments in Jamaica by non­ residents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he w i ll be able to repatriate at any time his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must register his investment with the Bank of Jamaica. Repatriation of investments in real estate is not permitted within the period of four years following the sale of the investment if the investor failed to make any significant improvements on the land. Remittances of current items, such as profits and dividends, are per­ mitted in full when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents of Jamaica and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica; authorized dealers may, however, without reference to the exchange con­ trol authorities, make loans or overdrafts to nonresidents of Jamaica up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Au thor ized dealers may also without reference to the exchange control authorities make loans or overdrafts to resident companies or branches controlled by non­ residents up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not specifically precluded under some pr ior conditional permission from the exchange control authorities. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Transfers to beneficiaries resident outside Jamaica under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that a ll local indebtedness has been met. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their nationality may transfer a ll their assets at the official market rate of exchange. Jamaican nationals emigrating are granted a settling-in allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year, a number of commodities were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license. Restrictions on imports from Japan were relaxed further. March 19. The Exchange Con t rol (Amendment) A c t, 1971 came into effect. It declared nonresident any body corporate resident in the Sterling A r ea and controlled either directly or indirectly by nonresidents. The A ct was intended pr imar i ly to bring under exchange control jurisdiction the acquisition of land by companies re. istered and incorporated within the Sterling A rea but controlled by nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. August 5. The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Co r­ poration, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank of Jamaica, was established. It began operations on Decem­ ber 1. August 16. Foreign exchange transactions were sus­ pended, w i th the exception of dealings in sterling and in U. S. and Canadian banknotes. August 25. Foreign exchange transactions were resumed. The Jamaica dollar remained pegged to ster­ l ing at the existing parity of J $l = £, stg. 0.50. Exchange rates for non-Sterling A r ea currencies con­ tinued to be based on London market rates. As a result, the Jamaica dollar appreciated against the U. S. dollar from the previous level of J $l = US$1 .20. August 27. To stabilize the commercial banks' rates for U. S. and Canadian dollars, the Bank of Jamaica, which had previously limited its dealings in foreign exchange to sterling and to purchases and sales of U. S. and Canadian banknotes against Jamaica dollars, com­ menced dealing in U. S. and Canadian dollars for tele­ graphic transfers against sterling. The Bank provided cover to banks in respect of transactions up to J$25,000 and set daily rates (based on closing rates in N ew Y o r k) at which banks could buy and sell U. S. and Canadian dollars in dealings with the public. Rates for transactions above J$25,000 were not covered under this arrange­ ment and for such transactions the banks were not bound by the rates fixed by the Bank of Jamaica. August 31. By amendment of Section 12 of the Bank of Jamaica L aw 1960, the statutory l ink of the Jamaica dollar to the pound sterling was severed, the statutory parity henceforth being defined in terms of gold (or on such other basis as might be specified by the M in is ter J A M A I CA of Finance and Planning after consultation with the Governor of the Bank of Jamaica, provided that such basis complied with any international agreement to which Jamaica is a pa r ty ); the gold parity and the effec­ tive parity relationship to sterling of J $l = <£ stg. 0.50 remained unchanged. September 7. Exchange control, which was formerly applied only to countries outside the Sterling A r e a, was for a 30-day period extended also to the Sterling A r e a; as a result, certain capital transfers to Sterling A r ea ter­ ritories became subject to restriction. The definition of foreign currencies, which previously covered non-Sterling A r ea currencies only, was extended to include all Ster­ l ing A r ea currencies except the Jamaica dollar, and a ll foreign currencies were designated as specified curren­ cies. Since Jamaica was listed as the only scheduled territory, the exchange control regulations a\so became applicable to the Turks and Caicos Islands, which use the Jamaica dollar as their currency. (The repatriation through the banking system of export proceeds received in Sterling A rea currencies had become mandatory in February 1970.) The application of exchange control to the Sterling A r ea was subsequently extended to June 5, 1972. September 7. To ensure the proper operation of the order extending exchange control to the Sterling A r e a, a system was instituted whereby a ll applications to banks to purchase foreign exchange in amounts equiva­ lent to J$ 10,000 or more must first be registered at the Bank of Jamaica, irrespective of whether they relate to current or capital transfers, before the exchange could be provided to the customer. Applications for registra­ tion had to be accompanied by supporting documents. In practice, the registration requirement affected import payments only, since the approval authority delegated to banks for certain other payments in no case reached J$ 10,000. September 7. Nonresident accounts for residents of Sterling A r ea territories other than Jamaica were intro­ duced. They were designated as Sterling A r ea Accounts. September 7. The Exchange Con t rol (Currency) Order, 1971 extended the application of the Exchange Con trol (Amendment) A c t, 1971 to any body corporate controlled outside Jamaica (see M a r ch 19, above). December 29. The exchange market, wh ich had been closed on December 20, was reopened. December 29. The existing par value of the Jamaica dollar was maintained in terms of gold. As a result, the effective parity relationship for sterling remained at J $l = <£ stg. 0.50 and that for the U. S. dollar became J $l = US$1.30286. Exchange rates were to be main­ tained within margins of up to 2\i per cent either side of the effective parity against sterling. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Y e n. A central rate has been established of ¥ 3 0 8 . 00 = US$1 and Japan avails itself of wider margins of up to 21/+ per cent. The official limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, which are set by the M in is try of Finance, are ¥ 3 1 4 . 93 (upper limit) and ¥ 3 0 1 . 07 (lower limit), per U S $ 1; the exchange authorities w i ll buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with non­ resident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a per­ mitted underlying transaction. Japan formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from A p r il 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the M in is t ry of Finance, the M in is t ry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the author­ ity for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by M I T I. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the M in is ter of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases that of the M in is ter of Finance only) after deliberation in certain important cases by the Foreign Investment Coun c i l. Outward capital investments require the approval of the M in is ter of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to a ll countries may be made in any cur­ rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun­ tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Y en Account. A ll payments to Rhodesia require pr ior approval by the M in is ter of Finance or the M in is ter of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may be opened by any nonresident w i th any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen pro­ ceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions, with yen proceeds from sales of a ll convertible foreign currencies, w i th transfers from 242 other Free Y en Accounts, with balances outstanding on July 31, 1969 on Nonresident Y en Deposit Accounts (see be low), and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign cur­ rency, but each authorized bank's balances are subject to a ceiling (see footnote 5 ). 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These ac­ counts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Y en Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Y en Deposit Accounts are limited mainly to proceeds from the sales of debenture and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition. Balances outstanding on December 31, 1970 were permitted to be transferred to Nonresident Free Y en Accounts or to be remitted abroad. Balances accrued after that date are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to 30 per cent of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of ¥ 720,000, whichever is higher. W i t h­ drawals from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other N o n­ resident Y en Deposit Accounts may be made freely, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated invest­ ments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Y en Accounts without having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments W i th the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but most private imports are liberalized from a ll sources. There are different licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list ," which comprises 87 items, in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature; 40 of the 87 items on the "negative l is t" have been notified to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G A TT as residual restrictions), the importer must first obtain from M I TI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles h im to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Prac­ tically a ll import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement, by M I T I. (2) Under the Automatic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and without any restriction.1 (3) Under the Automatic App roval System, imports are free of quantitative restriction since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. A ll items subject to the Automatic App roval System may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include cer­ tain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and raw and manufactured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for imports. When the settlement proposal is not in accordance w i th one of the "standard" methods (i.e., when certain advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four months after customs clearance), pr ior approval of M I TI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Interna­ tional Trade and Industry. Payments to other countries for invisibles also require approval, but current pay­ ments are not restricted and most such payments are approved freely by authorized banks without any l im i­ tation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. A travel allow­ ance equivalent to US$3 ,000 a person a trip, plus up to US$100 of any unused allowances from previous trips, is automatically made available for any type of travel; for additional amounts, special authorization is required and is given whenever the application is a bona fide one. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination. Residents may freely make payments abroad up to US$100 a person a year for any purpose.2 Certain insurance and technical assistance contracts 1 With effect from February 1, 1972 all items under the Automatic Import Quota System were transferred to the Automatic Approval System. 2 With effect from March 10, 1972, residents could without any for­ mality make transfers abroad up to US$1,000 a payment for virtually any purpose other than import payments. J A P AN require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the con­ tract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; without such approval, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely V 100,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are pro­ hibited. A ll exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank certification"), in order that the requirements concern­ ing the surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on certain goods to control their export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple foods); and restrictions designed to forestall the impos­ ition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on steel, pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and cer­ tain textiles). Exports under processing and consign­ ment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require individual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a b i ll of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months after ship­ ment. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month from the date of acquisition. However, trading concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in foreign currencies from exports and invisibles for a maximum of six months; during this period, they may use the exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen .3 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, rendering the service, etc., but contracts for services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to ind i- 0 With effect from May 8, 1972 all surrender requirements for for­ eign currency were abolished. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J A P AN vidual licensing. Receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered within one month of receipt. How­ ever, in order to facilitate payments for current inv is i­ bles, specified residents (shipping companies, etc.) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks in foreign currencies, in which they may retain their exchange proceeds for six months after receipt. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Law Concern­ ing Foreign Investment (L aw N o. 163 of M ay 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Con t rol L aw (Law N o. 228 of December 1, 1949). A ll acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks for portfolio investment are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan in cases where total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted industry remains below 25 per cent, or total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry remains 15 per cent or less,4 and the proportion of the total capital of any corporation acquired by a single holder remains below 10 per cent. Acqu is i t ion of stock for participation in management is subject (except in the case of newly established companies in the liberalized industries or in certain circumstances when participation in management is obtained by the purchase of securities within the per­ centage limits mentioned above) to individual screen­ ing by the competent ministers, but it is approved in principle if no adverse effect on the Japanese economy is expected. A ll these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock d iv i­ dends from earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. At present, purchases by nonresidents of short-term government securities, of unlisted Japanese bonds and debentures, and of beneficiary certificates of Japanese bond investment trusts are not normally per­ mitted. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on 4 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other trans­ portation, electric and gas utilities, banks, trusts, mining, fishery, and broadcasting. 244 debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from tech­ nological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expro­ priation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds from the sale of validated stock, as well as transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is per­ mitted. Proceeds from the sale of validated debentures and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in N o n­ resident Free Y en Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen with­ drawn from Nonresident Y en Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Y en Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Y en Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the M in i s t ry of Finance and M I TI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with approved procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the M in is ter of Finance and the competent minister ( in some cases the approval of the M in is ter of Finance only) after deliberation ( in certain important cases) by the Fore ign Investment C o u n c i l. Since August 4, 1971, when the fourth round of liberaliza­ tion measures for inward direct and portfolio investment took place, the position has been as follows. Cate­ gory B liberalized industries are 228 industries in which investment is free when new companies are established, with foreign ownership permitted up to 100 per cent. Under a negative list system, direct investment in 7 industries is subject to case-by-case screening. Industries other than the 228 in Category B and the 7 on the negative list are Category A liberalized industries, in which direct investment is free when new companies are established with up to 50 per cent foreign ownership. F or both direct and portfolio investment in the shares of existing enterprises, automatic approval is given when less than 10 per cent of total shares are held by a single investor. Even where investments for establishing new enterprises in liberalized industries are concerned, however, individual screening is required in the follow­ ing instances: (1) when the setting up of new compa­ nies is only nominal and when these companies may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution actually scheduled for eventual merger w i th companies already in existence; (2) when foreign capital may have the controlling power over management in the industries listed in Category A; or (3) when foreign participation is considered exceptionally detrimental to Japan's inter­ ests. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the M in is try of Finance. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval, but approval is either automatic or freely given for out­ ward direct investment, outward portfolio investment (but only for securities listed on a foreign stock exchange and excluding mutual fund and similar securi­ ties), and purchases of real estate abroad. Japanese emi­ grants may remit up to US$10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies from their assets to their new country of domicile subject only to verification by an authorized bank; additional amounts may be remitted subject to verification by the Bank of Japan. Emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domicile any amount of personal assets, subject to verification by the Bank of Japan. Securities acquired w i th approval under the L aw Concerning Foreign Investment may be imported and exported freely. The switching of foreign funds into yen by authorized banks is subject to regulation. Balances on Nonresident Free Y en Accounts at each bank are subject to ceilings, and theii borrowing of Euro-dollars and other short- term external funds is restricted.5 Gold Domestic producers sell their production, subject to government guidance, to gold ingot dealers at ¥ 660 a gram for domestic industrial and dental use. F r om time to time the M in i s t ry of Finance through its Special Account for Precious Metals purchases gold in overseas markets for resale at Y 660 a gram to mining com­ panies, which must resell in turn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. In domestic transactions, residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. Changes during 1971 In addition to the measures listed below, during the year, certain bond issues by nonresidents were per­ mitted on the Japanese capital market. The issuers were international organizations. The authorities followed a restrictive po l icy with respect to borrowing from non­ residents and took various measures to reduce banks' short-term liabilities to nonresidents. F or imports that 5 The ceilings on balances in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts and on borrowing of Euro-dollars were lifted on January 6, 1972. J A P AN remained subject to restriction, annual quotas generally were increased from 2 per cent to 5 per cent of domes­ tic consumption. January 1. Imports of 10 items on the negative list were liberalized, reducing the number of those items on the list that were subject to residual restrictions notified to the G A TT to 80 items in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature. They included breakfast cereals, whiskey, and a ll color film not previously liberalized. January 18. Japanese life and nonlife insurance com­ panies were permitted to purchase listed foreign securi­ ties up to an overall l im it of US$100 m i l l ion. February 1. The basic foreign exchange allowance for business trips was raised from US$2,000 to US$3,000 a person a trip. Regulations affecting alloca­ tions for student expenses abroad were also made more liberal, and remittances of personal gifts, endowments, and family loans for nonbusiness purposes were fully liberalized. February 1. Balances outstanding on December 31, 1970 on Nonresident Y en Deposit Accounts (amounting to some US$500,000) could be transferred to Nonresi­ dent Free Y en Accounts or remitted abroad, provided in either case that this was done on A p r il 30 at the latest. March 11. The M in is t ry of Finance, through the Foreign Exchange Fund Special Accoun t, began to deposit foreign currency funds with authorized banks up to the equivalent of 15 per cent of the import usances which they extended to customers, for use in replacing foreign currency borrowings abroad. March 15. The purchase of short-term government bills by nonresidents was prohibited in principle. April 1. Du r ing the next 12 months, issues of bonds abroad by residents for domestic use after conversion into yen would not normally be approved. April 1. Foreign investors were permitted to obtain a 50 per cent equity in newly established Japanese firms manufacturing motor vehicles of any type. April 1. Advance implementation of the last Kennedy Round tariff reduction took place. April 1. Unilateral reductions in import duties took place for passenger cars, trucks and buses; internal com­ bustion piston engines for motor vehicles; color film, electric refrigerators and electrothermic domestic appli­ ances; and radios, television receivers, record players, and coin-operated record players. Import duties on a few other items were raised. April 4. Steel producers extended for two years their voluntary quota arrangements for steel exports to the Un i ted States. (In October 1971 similar arrangements were made for exports to the E EC and the United K ingdom .) May 8. The Bank of Japan lowered the official dis­ count rate but kept interest rates on export financing unchanged, both for preshipping and postshipping finance, to narrow the differential against interest rates on loans for domestic transactions. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J A P AN May 17. Foreign branches of authorized foreign exchange banks were restricted, by ceilings set ind i­ vidually for each bank, from providing loans to nonresi­ dents and other Japanese interests or guaranteeing their borrowings from other financial institutions. May 17. Companies in Japan were prohibited, in principle, from undertaking repayment guarantees in respect of foreign borrowing by their overseas branches or subsidiaries. May 17. The acquisition by nonresidents of unlisted Japanese bonds, debentures, and beneficiary certificates of Japanese bond investment trusts was made subject to the pr ior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance; approval was not normally granted. May 18. Resident trading firms and other business organizations (such as shipping firms and airlines) with overseas branches or subsidiaries were allowed to hold any amount of foreign exchange as working funds. June 1. The Bank of Japan doubled, to 30 per cent of the total financing, the amount of yen funds which it provided to foreign exchange banks to cover import usance bills. The additional yen funds replaced the foreign currency deposits made by the Foreign Exchange Fund Special Account since M a r ch 11. In addition, the Government's foreign exchange account made do l­ lar deposits with foreign exchange banks to facilitate further the "yen-shift" in import financing. June 4. The Government adopted an eight-point bal­ ance of payments adjustment program. It provided for acceleration of import liberalization, early implementa­ tion of generalized tariff preferences for imports from developing countries, reductions in nonpreferential import duties, liberalization of inward and outward capi­ tal movements, easing of nontariff barriers to imports, promotion of economic aid, more orderly export mar­ keting and removal of certain export incentives, and flexible monetary and fiscal policies to stimulate domes­ tic demand. June 10. The period w i th in which residents were required to surrender export proceeds and other foreign currency receipts was extended from ten days to one month. June 10. The period during wh ich exporters cou ld ho ld their export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts w i th authorized banks was extended from a maximum of 20 days to a maximum of 6 months. June 10. Business travel and tourist travel were reclas­ sified and integrated into "foreign travel." The basic foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel was raised from US$1 ,000 to US$3 ,000 a person a trip. June 10. Imports of foreign coins (except gold coins) by collectors were fully liberalized. June 10. A ll restrictions on the types of foreign cur­ rency in which residents were permitted to collect their claims on nonresidents were lifted. Except as regards settlements in yen, this implied the abolition of the prescription of currency regulations. Previously, under the system of "designated receivable currencies," only 246 the following foreign currencies could be received: Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. June 30. Imports of 20 "residual restriction" items on the negative list were liberalized. They included frozen pineapple, black tea, sorghum, vegetable oils, oilseed meals, grapefruit, and automobile engines. July 1. Textile producers began a program of volun­ tary restraint of exports to the Un i ted States. July 1. A ny resident was freely permitted to buy and sell stocks and bonds listed on foreign stock exchanges (except securities issued by institutions for collective investment) through the intermediary of Japanese secu­ rity dealers. Previously, purchases of foreign securities abroad were only permitted to specified institutional investors and were subject to overall ceilings. July 1. Outward direct investment in any amount was permitted on an automatic basis. Previously, the Bank of Japan gave automatic approval only for certain direct investments not exceeding a cumulative amount of US$1 m i l l ion for each investment. July 1. Residents were freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Previously, such purchases were sub­ ject to ind iv idual screening. July 1. Remittances in any amount for the establish­ ment of working balances abroad or for the setting up of overseas branches were automatically approved by the Bank of Japan. Previously, automatic approvals were limited to US$1 m i l l ion for each remittance. August 1. Generalized tariff preferences were extended to 892 tariff items when imported from and originating in 96 developing countries. August 4. Inward direct investment was further liber­ alized in the fourth round of capital liberalization measures. On ly 7 industries wou ld be subject to case- by-case screening by the authorities. A ll other industries were liberalized as either Category A or Category B industries. Category B of the L ibera l iza t ion L ist was expanded from 77 industries to 228. August 4. The maximum share ownership in an exist­ ing Japanese enterprise which a single nonresident investor could hold (under automatic validation) was raised from less than 7 per cent to less than 10 per cent. August 10. The Bank of Japan ceased discounting export advance bills and introduced a uniform interest rate for all export financing of 5.25 per cent, the level of the official discount rate for domestic commercial bills. August 19. Banks were prohibited from exceeding at any time the August 18 level of their short-term exter­ nal borrowings. The prohibition was lifted on Decem­ ber 21. August 27. Banks were instructed not in principle to permit any increase beyond the August 27 level in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution level of balances on Nonresident Free Y en Accounts. (The prohibition was lifted on January 6, 1972.) August 27. The authorities announced that, effective August 28, dealings in foreign exchange would not necessarily be confined within the margins around par hitherto observed, although the authorities would con­ tinue to intervene in the exchange market. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar (Y 357.30 and Y 362.70) were suspended. As a result, the yen began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been ¥ 360.00 = U S $ 1. September 1. Conversion into yen of advance export receipts required pr ior approval. (The restriction was lifted on January 6, 1972 but reimposed on Febru­ ary 25, 1972.) September 1. Foreign dealers in securities were per­ mitted to open branch offices in Japan. September 6. Certain restrictions on authorized banks' operations that previously had been considered "admin­ istrative guidance" were given legal status. These were restrictions on banks' borrowings from nonresidents, ceilings on nonresidents' holdings on Free Y en Accounts, and controls over the conversion of foreign funds into yen. September 12. Import duties were calculated on the rates of exchange published by the D irec tor of Customs as weekly average market rates of exchange for foreign currencies. Th is measure was revoked on December 22. September 25. Banks were enabled to purchase for­ J A P AN eign exchange export bills from small and medium- sized enterprises at the spot rate ruling on the date of the transaction, with a fixed forward exchange discount of 3.625 per cent. A ny foreign exchange losses incurred as a result by the banks would be borne by the Govern­ ment. These measures were abolished on December 20. October 1. The amount of Japanese currency that travelers could take out was increased from ¥ 20,000 to ¥ 100,000 a person a trip. October 1. Imports of 20 "residual restriction" items on the negative list were liberalized, reducing the num­ ber of residual restrictions to 40. December 20. A central rate of ¥ 308.00 = US$1 was established. Japan availed itself of wider margins; for the U. S. dollar the official limits were set at ¥ 301.07 and ¥ 314.93. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 21. December 21. Some of the emergency measures imposed since August 15 were lifted. Restrictions imposed in M ay on lending to nonresidents by overseas branches of Japanese banks were also lifted. The controls over the conversion of foreign funds into yen by banks henceforth were to be applied on a monthly average basis instead of on a day-to-day basis. (Several other emergency measures were revoked on January 6, 1972. These included the prior approval requirement for any prepayment of exports, the ceilings on balances in N o n­ resident Free Y en Accounts, and the restriction on bor­ rowing of Euro-dollars and other short-term funds by banks.) 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan D ina r. The central rate is JD 1 = US$2 .80, and Jordan avails itself of wider margins of up to 2Vt per cent either side of that rate. The Central Bank's official limits for the U. S. dollar are US$2,863 buying, and US$2,737 selling, per JD 1 and commercial banks deal with the public within these limits. On December 31, 1971, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were US$2,801 and US$2,785 per dinar, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.100 and <£ stg. 1.096 per d inar .1 On the same date, the com­ mercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U. S. do l­ lar were US$2,801 and US$2,785 per dinar, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.100 and £. stg. 1.096 per dinar. Au thor ized banks deal in non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rencies other than U. S. dollars at rates usually based on the rates in the New Y o rk market. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of Vio of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Relations Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issu­ ance of exchange licenses up to a permitted annual l im it for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. Import policy is formulated by an Import Committee, which includes the Director of Sup­ ply, Imports, and Exports and a representative of the Central Bank of Jordan. The Import Committee pre­ sents its recommendations to the Minister of Na t ional Economy, who has the sole authority to decide on each proposal. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling A rea, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to resi­ dents of the Sterling A rea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency or, under a temporary instruction, in U. S. dollars. In practice, payments in Sterling A r ea currency are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresi­ dent Sterling A r ea Account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea other than Egypt must be made in sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with 1 In addition to U. S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank maintains official quotations for deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss francs. 248 an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible cur­ rency; payments for goods of U. S. or ig in, however, must be made only in U. S. dollars. A ll settlements with Egypt, except those for Egyptian rice exports (paid for in U. S. dollars outside the clearing arrangements) must be made in pounds sterling through clearing accounts under the bilateral payments agreement w i th that country. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be co l­ lected and surrendered where required, as follows: from residents of the Sterling A r e a, in resident sterling or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident Sterling A r ea Account with an authorized bank in Jordan; from residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Egypt, in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts designated either Sterling A r ea Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent resi­ dence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Cen­ tral Bank is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling A r ea Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated non­ resident accounts, transfers from Ex ternal Accounts to Sterling A r ea Accounts, and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items - from any source, some imports from Rumania, and a ll imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy, except for cer­ tain items 3 which are subject to scrutiny by the M i n­ ister of Na t ional Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and - These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalcoholic beverages; diesel-engined cars, trucks and buses; spaghetti, and similar products; military uniforms; and liquid batteries. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agricultural commodi­ ties are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fats; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; petroleum products (except aviation fuel); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned leather; amusement machines; blankets; woolen rugs; paper napkins and similar products; dry batteries; shaving lotion; and toothpaste. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of a ll materials needed for the establishment or expan­ sion of an industrial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea must meet 80 per cent of their requirements, and those of cast iron or steel tubes 50 per cent of their requirements, from Indian sources. Import licenses are generally va l id for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. Imports should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are subject to a penalty of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value; the penalty is 1 per cent, however, for raw materials deemed essential by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy and for certain machinery and equipment. Bank guarantees in favor of the M in is t ry of Finance are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license from the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange license may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of Vio of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. Most imported commodities are subject to an import tax of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. W i th this exception, all pay­ ments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain l im i ts: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable l iv ing expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents trav­ eling abroad; expenses for education; expenses for medi­ cal treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. The exchange allowance for travel to A r ab countries, Cyprus, and Turkey is the equivalent of JD 100 a person a trip, and that for travel to other countries is the equivalent of JD 16 a person a day for business travel and JD 12 a person a day for other travel (half of these amounts for children under 15) for trips of up to 30 days; each person may annually make three business trips and two tourist trips. For family support, an annual allowance of between JD 600 and JD 1,200 for each donor is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to the ceiling of JD 600-1,200. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in gen­ eral, liberal and nondiscriminatory. J O R D AN Residents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 100 in any combination of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. P ro­ ceeds from exports to A r ab League countries of agri­ cultural products and locally manufactured goods are exempt from the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phos­ phate company, the dyeing and tanning company, the cement plant, and the petroleum refinery; also exempt are proceeds from exports to Iran of agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (including sterling) must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coins .4 A ny person regarded for exchange control purposes as resi­ dent in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign cur­ rency (including sterling) at his disposal. Capital Cap i tal may be imported freely, but exports of capi­ tal require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective Janu­ ary 16, 1967 (Law N o. 1 of 1967), profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the original investment. Af ter two years repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign currency in which the original investment was made. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions. A ll transactions under the investment law require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. W i th 4 No approval is given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equiva­ lent in foreign currency. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J O R D AN this exception, residents other than the monetary au­ thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy on the recommendation of the Cen­ tral Bank, while exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The Central Bank has issued four gold coins under the G o ld and Silver Coins Regulation N o. 61 of 1968; these coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Changes during 1971 January 6. The exchange allocation for travel to A r ab countries, Cyprus, and Turkey was reduced to the equivalent of JD 100 a person a trip. May 16. The import of certain goods, mainly trans­ portation equipment and cigarettes, was prohibited, sub­ ject, however, to the provisions of the A r ab Common Market Agreement or any bilateral agreements in force. July 11. Instructions were issued providing that 50 per cent of the country's requirements of tubes of cast iron or steel and 80 per cent of the requirements of tea must be imported from Indian sources. Previously, similar requirements had applied also to the import of jute fabrics, jute bags, and certain cotton textile products. July 31. The penalty on goods shipped by sea but not via the port of Aqaba was increased from 5 per cent to 30 per cent. On September 22, the measure was revoked and was superseded by Import Regulation N o. 81 of September 16, which set the penalty at 20 per cent. August 17. The Central Bank suspended its dealings in foreign exchange. The commercial banks' dealings were not suspended. August 24. The Central Bank resumed foreign exchange dealings with commercial banks, but in U. S. dollars only. The previous official limits of US$2 .82 buying and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1, were main­ tained. The previous peg on sterling, for which the parity rate had been JD 1 = £ stg. 1.1667, was dis­ continued. August 25. The deposit requirement against import letters of credit opened at commercial banks was reduced from 25 per cent to 15 per cent for industrial raw materials, foodstuffs, construction materials, and a ll materials required by official entities and govern­ ment institutions. September 11. The Central Bank resumed dealing with commercial banks in pounds sterling, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss francs. September 20. Temporary instructions were issued allowing payments to Sterling A r ea countries to be made in U. S. dollars. December 22. The import from Rumania of specified goods was prohibited. December 29. A central rate of JD 1 = US$2 .80 was established. Jordan would avail itself of wider margins of up to 21/i per cent. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency KENYA The par value is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Kenya Sh i l l ing. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is US$1 = K Sh 7.14286. The Central Bank of Kenya deals w i th the Government and with author­ ized banks in Tanzan ia shillings and Uganda shillings against K enya shillings at par; the authorized banks also deal w i th the public in these currencies at pa r .1 In transactions with authorized banks, the Central Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U. S. dollars and to supply U. S. dollars in exchange for Kenya shillings; its buying and selling rates are K Sh 7.1407 and K Sh 7.1474 per U S $ 1. The Central Bank deals w i th the Government in pounds sterling on the basis of the daily opening rates for sterling in New Y o r k. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currenc ies2 other than sterling, U. S. dollars, and deutsche mark, except occasionally on behalf of the Gov­ ernment. Banks in K enya base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in New Yo rk. The Cen tral Bank deals forward in sterling and U. S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their contracts with exporters only; traders' forward exchange contracts require Central Bank approval when they exceed three months. Administration of Control The M in is ter of Finance and Econom ic Planning has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank of K eny a. Au tho r i ty for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the author­ ized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the M in i s t ry of C om­ merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in K enya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. The government-owned Kenya National T rad ing Corporation, L t d ., has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities and the export of certain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Together w i th Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East A f r i c an currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions, but the export or import of K enya banknotes is pro­ hibited. 1 All dealings in Tanzania and Uganda banknotes are suspended. 2 All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. K enya is a member of the Sterling A r ea and main­ tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the Un i ted K ingdom; settlements with Tanzania and Uganda, however, normally are effected in East A f r ican currency.3 Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling A rea other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Nonresident Sterling A rea Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling A rea currency; receipts from such coun­ tries must be obtained in Kenya shillings from a N o n­ resident Sterling A rea Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea other than Rho­ desia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other non- Sterling A rea currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United K ingdom, in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 4 that is not a Sterling A rea currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittances to South A f r i ca also are pro­ hibited, with the exception of those of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East A f r ican Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held, with exchange control approval, by residents of other Sterling A r ea countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling A r ea countries by Kenyan residents, with trans­ fers from other Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (other than Rho­ desian currency) or gold by residents of any country outside the Sterling A rea. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Ster­ ling A r ea except Tanzania and Uganda and other pay­ ments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea except Tanzania and Uganda to Kenyan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the :t East African currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K E N YA Sterling A r ea except Tanzania and Uganda for any pur­ pose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling A r ea currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in K eny a; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authori­ ties in a Sterling A r ea country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Kenya or elsewhere in the Sterling A r ea and for purchases in K enya of any non- Sterling A r ea currency or gold from authorized dealers. Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other Ex ternal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea to authorized dealers. Provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling A r ea country other than Tan­ zania or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea, for transfers to other External Accounts in Kenya or in any other Sterling A rea country, and for pur­ chases of non-Sterling A r ea currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South A f r i ca or Rhodesia) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in K e n y a ;5 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; for protective reasons, certain other imports are not being licensed. A ll imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. W i th certain exceptions, imports from Tan­ zania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan or ig in. Spe­ cific import licenses are required for all commodities originating in A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Ruman ia, or No r th V i e t -N am. Most goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license; but some require a specific license. A number of commodities may be imported only by or to the order of the K enya Na t ional Trad ing Corporation. When the importer has obtained a license from the D irec tor of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is pro­ vided automatically by an authorized bank upon appli­ cation and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Importers and exporters are recommended to submit their license applications three months in advance. A license is normally va l id for six months and may be extended for another three months. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Au thor ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur­ rent payments without limitation or up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as other cur­ rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self- employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33% per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover family maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled T e r r i to r i e s(i may continue to effect remit­ tances from salaries as above, but those who avail themselves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Remittances to South A f r i c a, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. The transfer of rents and dividends derived in whole or in part from property in K enya owned by a nonresident is restricted. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be 5 Such securities must be payable in East A fr ican currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. <; Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled T e r r i­ tories as Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. 2 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution taken out in foreign banknotes.7 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South A f r i c a. Travelers are not permitted to take out domestic currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. Exports of coffee are made through the intermediary of the Coffee Marketing Board. A ll exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be c o l­ lected w i th in six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in K enya for conversion into Kenya shillings.8 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes, with the exception that the import of Tanzania or Uganda shilling notes is not permitted. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The import of East Afr ican shilling notes also is prohibited. Capital Cap i tal transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers in respect of legacies and inheritances to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; a ll other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Transfers to Rhodesia or South A f r i ca are not allowed. W i th the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, persons leaving Kenya permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each family unit if they take up residence in a country outside the Sched­ uled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, during a period of five years, apply for the K E N YA release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. A ll remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Sched­ uled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Or­ dinance. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange control approval and is subject to a ceiling. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, a ll imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi­ dents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not nor­ mally permitted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following from a ll sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and from Tanzania and Uganda when originat­ ing in other countries is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bu l l ion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued freely; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1971 7 Banks are not permitted, without specific approval, to sell exchange in'excess of K Sh 200 a day (subject to a maximum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Burundi, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zambia. 8 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. March 22. The export and import of Kenya cur­ rency to and from a ll countries, including Uganda and Tanzania, was prohibited. June 17. A 12.5 per cent withholding tax was imposed on repatriated dividends and interest, and a 20 per cent 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K E N YA withholding tax was imposed on management fees and royalties paid to nonresidents. July 26. Bank credit to firms importing vehicles dur­ ing the next three months had to be reduced by 10 per cent a month during the following three months, and credit to importers of consumer goods not used in local manufacturing had to be reduced by 5 per cent over the same period. Exchange control approvals for local borrowing extended to firms dealing in these goods were withdrawn for revision. August 15. Restrictions on rice imports were intro­ duced. August 16. The Central Bank suspended exchange transactions. August 24. The Central Bank resumed transactions in sterling on the basis of the previous fixed relation­ ship of K Sh 17.1429 = <£1. Rates for other currencies were based on their closing rates in London. As a result, the Kenya shilling began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. September 13. The Central Bank quoted the U. S. dollar on the basis of the pre-August 15 parity of K Sh 7.1429 = U S $ 1. The fixed relationship for sterling of K Sh 17.1429 = £1 was maintained. Other foreign currencies continued to be quoted on the basis of the sterling rates in London. October 11. The K enya shilling was unpegged from sterling. U. S. dollar quotations continued to be based on the relationship of K Sh 7.1429 = US $ 1. December 3. The Central Bank ceased granting for­ ward exchange cover to importers. December 16. Commerc ial banks were directed to maintain certain cash balances (a m in imum of 5 per cent of net deposit liabilities) with the Cen tral Bank. The requirement was rescinded on February 1, 1972. December 22. The par value of the K e n ya shilling was changed from 0.124414 to 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Kenya shilling. The effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at K Sh 7.14286 = U S $ 1. K enya would avail itself of wider margins. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Khmer Repub­ lic has been agreed with the F u n d. There is a unified foreign exchange market with a unitary exchange rate. The Na t ional Bank of Cambodia (the central bank) manages the market and adjusts the exchange rate periodically in the light of market conditions; on December 31, 1971 the exchange rate was KR 130 per U S $ 1 .1 On the supply side of the market a ll export pro­ ceeds and other foreign exchange receipts are subject to compulsory surrender. In addition to these receipts the market is also supplied with foreign exchange under certain aid programs. Exchange earnings from a ll per­ missible exports are channeled through the commercial banks to be converted at the exchange rate established by the Na t ional Bank for any given market day; com­ mercial banks must sell all export proceeds to the National Bank through the foreign exchange market without delay. On the demand side, foreign exchange is purchased by commercial banks to finance all imports except for those that are either financed under the U. S. Commercial Import Program and Pub l ic Law 480 Programs or are made sans devises; in addition, a ll permissible payments for invisibles and capital are channeled through this market. Participation in the market is limited to authorized commercial banks which buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the Na t ional Bank; they act on behalf of customers only and are not allowed to main­ tain foreign exchange balances for trade purposes, except as these may arise in connection with their normal operations. Foreign exchange transactions of the Government and its departments and agencies are subject to the same conditions as transactions of the private sector, but are generally channeled through the Na t ional Bank. The Na t ional Bank of Cambodia maintains official quotations for 12 currencies.2 These quotations all pro­ vide for a spread of 0.4 per cent between the buying and selling rate expressed in riels. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Exchange Office, a department of the Na t ional Bank; this office is empowered to authorize a ll operations related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. The M in is t ry of Commerce is in charge of the administration of import and export controls. 1 On January 17, 1972 the exchange rate (the general rate) was appreciated to KR 120 per US$1 and a separate rate, initially set at KR 90 per US$1, was introduced for payments for aid imports and related services procured directly from donor countries. 2 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Netherlands guilders, pounds ster­ ling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Settlements with five countries with which the Khmer Republic has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and the U. S. S. R. are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for B u l­ garia and Poland in U. S. dollars. Settlements with other countries take place in convertible currencies. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the Na t ional Bank. Profits on, and pro­ ceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be main­ tained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Cap i tal Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Khmer nationals stay­ ing abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresi­ dents, and foreigners staying in the Khmer Republic but not recognized as residents, may maintain Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. There are separate regula­ tions concerning nonresident accounts that may be used to finance transactions in the free trade area of Kompong-Som. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, with­ out permission, for foreigners residing outside the Khmer Republic. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) payments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in the Khmer Republic and receipts from repayments on Khmer stocks and bonds and on other investments made in the Khmer Republic after M ay 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in the Khmer Republic and, pro­ vided that it is quoted on the Phnom Penh market, for purchases of the currency of the country of the account holder (except in the form of banknotes). Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels re­ lated to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the country of the account holder; (2) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Khmer 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K H M ER R E P U B L IC stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since January 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the Na t ional Exchange Office; (5) repay­ ment of loans granted to residents pr ior to January 1, 1955, or after that date w i th the approval of the Na t ional Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Cap i tal Accounts may be freely debited for (1) l iv ing expenses of the account holder or his family up to KR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of KR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in the Khmer Republic (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc.). Subject to authorization from the Na t ional Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to, or increases in the capi­ tal of, a Khmer firm; (3) purchases through an author­ ized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account related to the country of the account holder; (6) l iv ing expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, etc.); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in the Khmer Republic, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) l iv ing expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder and his family. They may freely be credited with the proceeds from foreign currency sold on the Phnom Penh market and with interest on funds held in the account con­ cerned. A ll other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, mis­ sions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in the Khmer Repub­ lic by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom Penh market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Khmer nationals employed by Khmer firms and tem­ porarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in the Khmer Republic by account holders; (5) redeposits of 256 previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) l iv ing expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in the Khm er Republic, and (3) loans to residents. A ll other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. In view of the availability of substantial amounts of commercial aid resources, several important import commodities have been placed on an "exclusive l is t"; their importation is permitted only against commercial aid financing. The list includes tobacco leaves, cotton fibers, certain vegetable oils, wheat flour, and cotton thread under the U. S. P . L. 480 program, and some foodstuffs, rubber and rubber prod­ ucts, petroleum, chemicals, timber and paper products, i ron and steel, metals, cars and trucks, and U. S. equip­ ment in general, under the U. S. Commerc ial Import Program (CIP). A ll other permissible imports, including those eligible for C IP financing that are not on the "exclusive l is t ," are placed on a general import list, for which cash foreign exchange resources are provided without restrictions. A ll imports channeled through the foreign exchange market, except for import orders valued at US$300 or less (which may be effected sans devises), must be settled against letters of credit or similar instruments opened by the commercial banks against foreign exchange purchased in the market. Importers are required to submit their requests for purchase of for­ eign exchange to the commercial banks, with a local currency payment equal to 20 per cent of the cost of the exchange requested, calculated at the latest quota­ tion for the exchange rate. In their requests for exchange importers must state the most depreciated exchange rate they are prepared to pay. If the Na t ional Bank establishes an exchange rate at this or at a more appreciated point, the importer's full request is satisfied at the current exchange rate. The balance of the local currency cost is due at the time of opening a letter of credit. If, however, the importer has indicated a more appreciated rate than the one actually established, he w i ll not be able to obtain exchange. in order to facilitate the efficient utilization of avail­ able commercial aid resources, preferential local cur­ rency payment facilities have been extended to import­ ers who are w i l l ing to finance imports through a id. The local currency cost of C IP imports is settled as follows: (1) in the case of purchases from the Un i ted States or from "offshore" countries,3 the importer must pay 10 per cent of the import value in riels at the time the Certain developing countries in Asia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import application is approved by S O N E X IM (Societe Nationale d'Exportation et dTmportation), 15 per cent at the time the order is placed, and the remainder at the time of the presentation of documents by the com­ mercial bank; (2) where S O N E X IM is buying directly from "offshore" countries, the importer must pay 25 per cent of the import value in riels at the time of delivery of the import certificate by S O N E X IM and the remainder at the time of presentation of documents by the commercial bank. Each importer is required to obtain an import busi­ ness license. Importers are permitted to trade with for­ eign countries only if they have assumed corporate status (societes anonymes). The equity capital of such corporations should be at least KR 5 m i l l ion; 51 per cent of the equity should be held by Khmer nationals and one third of Board membership should be Khme r. Upon completion of the import transaction, import­ ers are required to submit proof that the foreign exchange has actually been used to finance imports, and that the goods have arrived and have been cleared through customs with full payment of import duty and other levies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to foreign trade trans­ actions are permitted without restrictions or formalities. A ll other payments for invisibles require individual licenses. A foreigner work ing in the Khm er Republic and receiving a monthly salary exceeding KR 5,000 in Phnom Penh, or KR 3,500 in the provinces, may in principle transfer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary—after payment of taxes—plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent wife stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, parents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional percentage of transferable income is 2 per cent for each legitimate ch i ld or dependent parent or grand­ parent, with a maximum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each family.) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of KR 20,000 a worker a month. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational insti­ tutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Khmer nationals and work ing in the private sector are not permitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in the Khmer Republic may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income from rent, provided that the rent exceeds KR 5,000 for landlords l iv ing in Phnom Penh or KR 3,500 for landlords l iv ing in the provinces. F o r­ eign landlords l iv ing abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. K H M ER R E P U B L IC Foreigners residing in the Khmer Republic, when leaving the country permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in the Khmer Republic, provided that the savings have been regularly deposited with an authorized bank in the Khmer Republic. The transfer of the full net profits from nonresident investments made prior to M ay 31, 1956 is authorized, subject to proof that the investment was made with foreign currency other than the former Indo-Chinese piastre; otherwise, the transfer of profits on pre-1956 investments is limited to 80 per cent and is permitted only if the investment is recognized as useful to the economic development of the Khmer Republic. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made after M ay 31, 1956 may be trans­ ferred annually. Khmer nationals studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allocations equivalent to up to KR 6,000 for A s ian countries and up to KR 7,000 for any other country, in addition to installation, holiday, and cloth­ ing allowances. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Khmer currency is prohibited and foreign tourists require special authorization to recon­ vert riels into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports are free, except for a small number of items that appear on a prohibited list and also a rather larger number that appear on a restricted list; the Gov­ ernment may curtail exports of these latter items when this seems necessary as a means of ensuring adequate supplies of essential commodities, such as rice and beef, in the domestic market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Au thor­ ized banks, approved hotels, airlines and other organiza­ tions authorized to receive payment in foreign exchange are required to keep adequate records of such transac­ tions and to surrender the receipts to the commercial banks within a reasonable time. The hotel bills of for­ eign visitors must be settled in foreign exchange, although minor adjustments in the bills may be effected in riels where the visitor can produce evidence that he has acquired the riels through banking channels. The import of Khmer currency is prohibited. Capital A ll capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Khmer nationals and leave the Khmer Republic permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K H M ER R E P U B L IC transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans or ig i­ nally granted in foreign currency may be considered transferable income. Since M ay 31, 1956, a ll foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the M in is t ry of Finance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Khmer participation and that its employees should be Khmer nationals. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic develop­ ment of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds from the liquidation of authorized investments made after M ay 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of investment made pr ior to M ay 31, 1956 may be author­ ized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested after M ay 31, 1956 is guar­ anteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported dur­ ing the first year of operation) may be accorded to for­ eign investment considered as exceptionally useful to the Khmer economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Gold Residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in the Khmer Republic for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, S O N E X I M, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authoriza­ tion by the Na t ional Bank; such authorization is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and S O N E X I M. Changes during 1971 February 1. Hotels, restaurants, airlines, travel agents, and certain other authorized intermediaries were author­ ized to retain 10 per cent of their exchange earnings. These retained balances might be applied through E F AC accounts to meet exchange costs connected with their business undertakings. July 7. The approved budget proposals included a number of increases in the rates of turnover tax on imports. In addition, the uniform surcharge of 2 per cent on a ll imported goods was raised to 25 per cent for private cars; 15 per cent for alcohol, wines, and perfumes; 7 per cent on cars for resale; and 3 per cent on other commodities for resale. These taxes were ca l­ culated on the landed value in Phnom Penh augmented by a special war mobilization tax of 50 per cent. August 23. The official exchange rate was maintained at KR 55.54 = U S $ 1. October 29. An exchange reform was introduced as part of a stabilization program. A flexible unitary rate was set, in i t ia l ly at KR 140 per U S $ 1, and the former multiple currency practices were eliminated (previously, the official rate had been KR 55.54 = U S $ 1 ). A ll exchange proceeds became subject to surrender. Most existing import controls were eliminated. Three sepa­ rate import lists were introduced: an "exclusive" list of commodities that could be imported only under U. S. a id; a general import list covering items that cou ld be imported either against free exchange or, if eligible for the latter, under U. S. a id; and a limited list of items that would be either restricted (and require special licensing) or prohibited. Credit arrangements for imports were adjusted so that importers of goods financed with U. S. aid were required to deposit in advance only 25 per cent of the value of the com­ modity concerned while importers of other goods were required to purchase the foreign exchange against full payment in local currency before opening the letter of credit. Importers were required to incorporate as societes anonymes. December 15. The exchange rate was appreciated from KR 140 per US$1 to KR 130 per US $ 1. December 20. The exchange rate was maintained at KR 130 - U S $ 1. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Ko rean W on has been estab­ lished with the Fund. Since M a r ch 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate determined in an exchange certificate market. On December 31, 1971 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Ko rea for the U. S. dollar were W 372.80 and W 373.80, respec­ tively, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 372.50 and W 374.10, respectively. Exchange certificates va l id for 45 days are issued by the foreign exchange banks against a ll foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by resi­ dents. A ll foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certifi­ cates are in principle required for a ll foreign exchange expenditures except for payments for imports financed under U. S. aid programs, and payments by commercial banks in connection with their banking transactions, etc. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It car­ ries out po l icy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Ko rea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The K o r ea Exchange Bank, whose capital is who l ly subscribed by the Government and the Bank of Ko r e a, has taken over from the latter a ll its international banking and foreign exchange business. The foreign exchange banks, as we ll as the branch offices in Ko r ea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources ( K F X) is prepared by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign grants and loans are programed separately by the Econom ic Planning Board in consul­ tation w i th the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry, and import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements between K o r ea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. K o r ea has a bilat­ eral payments agreement with V i e t -N am, but no clear­ ing account has been established. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in pre­ scribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the M i n­ istry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and Ko rean workers abroad may main­ tain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar­ ture from Ko rea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Ko rea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Ko rea, or from exchange deposited in accordance w i th a decision of the M in is t ry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold time deposit accounts in U. S. dollars with the foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to oper­ ate in the Masan Free Export Zone may maintain cur­ rent deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zone. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating in Cuba, mainland Ch ina, No r th Ko rea, or No r th V i e t -N am and for certain imports from a ll other countries. Imports are divided into three categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called K FX imports), those paid for with foreign aid funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations ( P AC impor ts). K FX imports are classified as auto­ matic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. A ll commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited commodi- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K O R EA t ies. A u t o m a t ic a p p r o v al i tems (on D e c em b er 3 1, 1971 these w e re 6 69 out of 1,312 b a s ic i tems in the S I TC c l a s s i f i c a t ion) con s i st m a i n ly of essen t ial c o n s um er goods not d om e s t i c a l ly p r o d u c ed a nd c e r t a in r aw m a t e r i a ls a nd c a p i t al g o o d s .2 R e s t r i c t ed i tems (570) in a nega t ive l i st are subject to i n d i v i d u al l icen se s. P r o­ h i b i t ed i tems ( 7 3) are m a i n ly l u x u ry good s, i tems p r o h i b i t ed f or reasons of p u b l ic h e a l th or m o r a l s, a nd some d om e s t i c a l ly p r o d u c ed good s. Im p o r ts of r aw m a t e r i a ls f or the p r o d u c t i on of expo r ts a re n o r m a l ly a p p r o v ed a u t om a t i c a l l y, i r r e sp e c t ive of t h e ir c l a s s i f i c a­ t i o n. F o r e i gn a id im p o r ts are c la s s i f ied as e i ther au to­ m a t ic a p p r o v al i tems or r e s t r i c t ed i tem s. In p r i n c i p l e, no c omm o d i t i es im p o r t ed w i th f o r e i gn a id funds are i n c l u d ed am o ng the K FX im p o r t s, b ut in e x c e p t i o n al cases p a ym e nt f or im p o r ts u s u a l ly f in an c ed w i th a id funds m ay be m a de w i th K FX ex ch ang e. F or pu rpo s es of l i c e n s i ng im p o r ts f r om spec i f ied c o u n t r i e s, the p o s i­ t i on of K o r e a 's b a l a n ce of t rade w i th the c o u n t ry c o n­ c e r n ed is t a k en i n to a c c o u n t. Im p o rt l icen ses are g r a n t ed o n ly to reg i s te red t rade r s; to m a i n t a in the status of a reg i s te red t r ad e r, a m i n i m um v a l ue of U S $ 3 0 0 , 0 00 of expo r ts is r e q u i r ed e a ch y e ar f or o r d i n a ry expo r t e r s. T he c o m m e r c i al te rms of p a ym e nt on w h i ch im p o r ts m ay be c o n t r a c t ed a re r egu l a t ed, a nd adv an ce im p o rt depos i ts are r e q u i r ed f or mo st ca tego r ies of im p o r ts by the p r i v a te sec to r; these a re me t, f or K FX im p o r t s, by depo s it of ex ch ange ce r t i f ica tes a n d / or l o c al c u r r e n cy at the t ime of a p p l y i ng f or i m p o rt l icen se s. T he ex ch ange ce r t i f ica te depos i ts a re, in effect, adv an ce p a y­ men ts offset aga inst the im p o rt se t t lemen t; the w on e q u i v a l e nt of a ny am o u nt of depo s it in excess of the im p o rt se t t lement is r e p a id to the im p o r t er at the t ime of the release of the r e l a t i ve b i ll of l a d i n g. Im p o r ts by the p r i v a te sec tor u n d er U. S. a id p r o g r ams are sub ject to p r i or w on c a sh p a ym e n ts of p a rt of the im p o rt set­ t lemen t, a nd im p o r ts w i th Japanese P r o p e r ty a nd C l a i ms F u n ds ( P AC im p o r t s) are sub ject to p r i or p a ym e n ts of p a rt of the im p o rt se t t lement in ex ch ange ce r t i f ica te s. A d v a n ce depos i ts f or K FX im p o r t s, o th er t h an r aw m a t e r i a ls f or the p r o d u c t i on of expo r t s, range be tween 30 p er cent a nd 150 p er cent a c c o r d i ng to the n a t u re of the im p o rt a nd the c o m m e r c i al te rms of p a ym e n t; the ra tes are 100 p er cent or 150 p er cent f or im p o r ts aga inst s ight le t ters of c r e d i t, 30 p er cent f or d o c um e n ts aga inst accep tance im p o r t s, a nd 50 per cent f or im p o r ts on a d o c um e n ts aga inst p a ym e nt bas is a nd b o n d ed w a r ehou se t r a n s a c t i on te rm s. A d v a n ce depos i ts f or K FX im p o r ts of r aw m a t e r i a ls f or expo r ts range b e tw e en z e ro a nd 30 p er cent a c c o r d i ng to the c o m­ m o d i ty a nd the status of the e x p o rt p r o d u c t i o n, i .e ., w h e t h er the la t ter is c o v e r ed by an e x p o rt c o n t r a ct or an e x p o rt le t ter of c r e d i t; in some cases b a nk g u a r a n­ tees c o v e r i ng the b a l a n ce of the im p o rt v a l ue in excess of the a d v a n ce depo s it are a lso r e q u i r e d. R aw m a t e r i a ls that c an a l so be p r o d u c ed in K o r ea r e q u i re an advance depo s it of be tween 20 a nd 30 p er cen t. Im p o r ts of e q u i pm e nt a nd f a c i l i t i es f or e x p o rt indu s t r i es f in an c ed w i th dom e s t ic lo ans in f o r e i gn ex ch ange a re not sub­ ject to a d v a n ce depos i ts; p a ym e nt ( in ex ch ange c e r t i f i­ cates) of 10 p er cent of the im p o rt v a l ue is r e q u i r ed u p on the re lease of b i l ls of l a d i n g, w i th the b a l a n ce of the p a ym e nt to be se t t led in a c c o r d a n ce w i th the te rms of the l o a n. Im p o r ts f or l e a d i ng expo r t e rs a nd e l i g i b le f or settle­ m ent on a one -year d o c um e n ts aga inst accep tance bas is, as w e ll as im p o r ts of the G o v e r n m e nt a nd of g o v e r nm e n t - o p e r a t ed en te rp r ises, are ex empt f r om advance depo s it r equ i r em en t s. T he M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce has a u t h o r i ty to a p p ly to a ny im p o rt c o m m o d i ty that it deems non e s s en t i al a s p e c i al cu s toms tariff, w h i ch p r o v i d es f or an a d d i t i o n al t ax of 70 p er cent or 90 p er cent of the d i f f e r en t i al b e tw e en e s t im a t ed who l e s a le v a l ue of the c omm o d i ty a nd im p o rt p r i ce p l us n o r m al p ro f i t. T he a u t h o r i ty has b e en i n v o k ed in respect of a n um b er of c omm o d i t i e s. F u r t h e rm o r e, the G o v e r n m e nt m ay a l ter im p o rt du ty ra tes a dm i n i s t r a t i v e ly by up to 50 pe rcen tage p o i n t s. Payments for Invisibles A ll p a ym e n ts f or i n v i s i b l es r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al l icen se s. P a ym e n ts f or i n v i s i b l es c o n n e c t ed w i th f o r e i gn t rade t r an s a c t ions a nd f or c e r t a in o th er i t em s, s u ch as b a n k­ i ng cha rge s, i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s, c o m m u n i c a t i on fees, a nd p e r i o d i c a l s, are l i c e n s ed a u t om a t i c a l l y. T h e re are c e r t a in s t a n d a rd a l l o c a t i o ns f or bus iness t r a v e l. In a d d i t i o n, expo r t e rs are a u t h o r i z ed to use ex ch ange ea rn ings up to an am o u nt of U S $ 2 , 0 00 a m o n th f or the expenses of t h e ir overseas b r an ch e s; the a u t h o r i z a­ t i on is U S $ 3 , 0 00 a m o n th if expo r ts to the c o u n t ry c o n­ c e r n ed ex c e ed U S $ 5 0 0 , 0 00 a nd U S $ 5 , 0 00 a m o n th if expo r ts to the c o u n t ry c o n c e r n ed exceed U S $1 m i l l i o n. A ll res iden ts d e p a r t i ng f or t r a v el a b r o ad m ay p u r c h a se f o r e i gn exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of U S $ 30 a d a y; they m ay pu r ch a se an a d d i t i o n al U S $ 2 00 f or e a ch t r ip f or e x t ra expenses. S tuden ts s t u d y i ng a b r o ad m ay r e c e i ve a m o n t h ly l i v i ng a l l ow a n ce of up to U S $ 3 0 0. F o r e i gn a nd K o r e an c u r r e n cy no tes m ay n ot be e x p o r t ed w i t h o ut s p e c i al p e rm i s s i o n. N o n r e s i d e nt f o r­ e igne rs need not reg i s ter f o r e i gn ex ch ange in spec i f ied c u r r e n c i es that they b r i ng i n to K o r ea a n d, w h en depa r t­ i n g, they m ay r e c o n v e rt u n u s ed w on notes i n to U. S. d o l l a rs up to U S $ 1 0 0, subject to c o n f i rm a t i on of the o r i g i n al sale of ex ch ange (up to U S $ 50 w i t h o ut s u ch c o n f i rm a t i o n ); non r e s id ent fo r e ign e rs b r i n g i ng in n o n- spec i f ied c u r r e n c i es m ay be reque s ted to reg i s ter the am o u n ts i n v o l v e d. Exports and Export Proceeds 9 Some automatic approval items require the prior approval of M in istry of Commerce and Industry when imported from Japan. the A ll expo r ts to C u b a, m a i n l a nd C h i n a, N o r th K o r e a, R h o d e s i a, a nd N o r th V i e t - N a m, are p r o h i b i t e d, as a re 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expo r ts of c e r t a in goods (such as r aw c o t t o n, p l a t i n um o res, w o od c h a r c o a l, p u l p, a nd was te p ap e r) to a ll o th er c o u n t r i e s. C e r t a in expo r ts r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al l icen se s. A ll o th er expo r ts m ay be m a de f r e e ly u n d er an au to­ m a t ic a p p r o v al p r o c e d u r e. T he e x p o rt p r o c e e ds in f o r­ e i gn ex ch ange mu st e i ther be s u r r e n d e r ed to a f o r e i gn exchange b a nk at the m a r k et ra te or be e x c h a n g ed i n to e q u i v a l e nt f o r e i gn ex ch ange ce r t i f ica tes. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll p ro c e eds d e r i v ed f r om i n v i s i b l es mu st e i ther be s o ld to a f o r e i gn exchange b a nk or be e x c h a n g ed f or e q u i v a l e nt ex ch ange ce r t i f ica tes. T he im p o rt of K o r e an c u r r e n cy no tes r equ i r es s p e c i al a u t h o r i z a t i o n. T r a v e l e rs m ay b r i ng w i th t h em any am o u nt of f o r e i gn ex ch ang e. Capital A ll c a p i t al r em i t t an c es r e q u i re a p p r o v a l. F o r e i gn c a p i t al inv e s tm en t, l o a ns f r om a b r o a d, a nd im p o r ts of c a p i t al goods on a l o n g - t e rm ba s is c an secu re a g u a r a n­ tee of r e p a ym e nt a nd r e p a t r i a t i on u n d er the F o r e i gn C a p i t al I n d u c em e nt L a w. No l im i ts are p l a c ed on c o n­ v e r s i on a nd r em i t t a n ce of l e g i t im a te p ro f i ts a nd d i v i­ dends, a nd up to 20 p er cent of the o r i g i n al c a p i t al inv e s t ed p l us any r e inv e s tm ent m ay be r ep a t r i a t ed e a ch y e a r, t wo yea rs f r om the c omm e n c em e nt of op e r a t ions in K o r e a. Gold C e r t a in c omm em o r a t i ve g o ld c o i ns are l e g al tender but do n ot c i r c u l a t e. W i th the e x c e p t i on of h o l d i n gs of g o ld c o i ns f or n um i sm a t ic pu rpo s e s, res iden ts o th er t h an the m o n e t a ry a u t h o r i t i es a nd a u t h o r i z ed i n d u s t r i al users a re n ot a l l ow ed to h o ld or a c q u i re g o ld in any f o rm o th er t h an j ew e l ry in K o r ea or a b r o a d. Im p o r ts a nd expo r ts of g o ld in any f o rm o th er t h an j ew e l ry c o n­ s t i t u t i ng the p e r s o n al effects of a t r av e l er r e q u i re l icenses i s sued by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e; s u ch l icen ses a re n ot n o r m a l ly g r a n t ed except f or im p o r ts a nd expo r ts by or on b e h a lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es a nd a u t h o r­ i z ed i n d u s t r i al users. Changes during 1971 January 1. T he f o r e i gn exchange budget f or 1971 w e nt i n to effect. It p r o v i d ed that im p o r ts of l u x u ry goods, nonessen t ia ls, a nd i tems w i th a cu s toms du ty of o v er 50 p er cent w o u ld be fu r th er r e s t r i c t ed. T he sys­ t em of m a r g in ra tes w o u ld be r ev i s ed if the re we re a ny un exp e c t ed im p o rt inc reases in 1 9 7 1. January 1. T he t r ade p r o g r am f or the first h a lf of 1971 w ent i n to f u ll effect. S i x t e en im p o rt i tems w i th a 1969 im p o rt v a l ue of U S $ 1 7 .3 m i l l i on we re sh i f t ed f r om the r e s t r i c t ed to the a u t om a t ic a p p r o v al l i st w h i le seven i tems w i th a 1969 im p o rt v a l ue of U S $ 1 0 .6 m i l­ l i on w e re m o v ed in the reve rse d i r e c t i o n. January 1. F o r e i gn t r ade r egu l a t ions we re am e n d ed to a l l ow t rade w i th c omm u n i st c o u n t r i es o th er t h an K O R EA m a i n l a nd C h i n a, C u b a, N o r th K o r e a, a nd N o r th V i e t- N a m. January 1. T he a l l o c a t i on of ex ch ange f or t r a v el p u r­ poses was en t ru s ted to the B a nk of K o r e a. January 8. T he M CI a n n o u n c ed ru l es for the im p o r­ t a t i on w i th K FX exchange of i n d u s t r i al e q u i pm e nt f or e x p o rt indu s t r i es up to U S $ 65 m i l l i o n. January 21. T he M CI a n n o u n c ed r u l es f or the im p o r­ t a t i on of i n d u s t r i al e q u i pm e nt f or expo rt indu s t r i es w i th U S $ 10 m i l l i on in f o r e i gn ex ch ange lo ans m a de a v a i l a­ b le by f o r e i gn b a n ks in K o r e a. January 22. T he am o u nt of e x p o rt lo ans that c o u ld be e x t e n d ed to expo r t e rs w as r a i s ed f r om W 2 40 p er U S $1 to W 2 60 p er U S $ 1. In a d d i t i o n, 9 0 - d ay in s tead of 60 -d ay p r e f e r e n t i al l o a ns we re p r o v i d ed to m a n u f a c­ tu re rs of e x p o rt p r o d u c ts to assist t h em in s t o c k p i l i ng d om e s t ic r aw m a t e r i a ls f or e x p o rt p r o c e s s i n g. January 30. T he m i n i m um e x p o rt r e c o rd r e q u i r ed to r e t a in a f o r e i gn t rade l i c e n se b e c ame f or o r d i n a ry t rade rs U S $ 1 5 0 , 0 00 a nd f or m e d i um - s i z ed i n d u s t r i al f i rms U S $ 5 0 , 0 00 f or the s e c o nd h a lf of 1970, a nd f or expo r t e rs s p e c i a l i z i ng in a g r i c u l t u r al a nd f i she ry p r o d­ uc ts U S $ 3 0 0 , 0 00 in 1970. February 1. E x p o r t e rs w e re r e q u i r ed to p ut up p r i or im p o rt depos i ts of 1 0 - 20 p er cent f or the im p o r t a t i on of those r aw m a t e r i a ls for e x p o rt m a n u f a c t u re that c o u ld a lso be p r o d u c ed d om e s t i c a l l y. February 3. T he M CI a n n o u n c ed that the c e i l i ng f or im p o r ts on d o c um e n ts aga inst accep tance te rms ( D / A) f or 1971 w o u ld be U S $ 2 35 m i l l i on (an inc rea se of U S $ 35 m i l l i on o v er the 1 9 70 c e i l i n g ), of w h i ch U S $ 55 m i l l i on w o u ld be r e s e rv ed f or l e a d i ng expo r t e r s. T r a d e rs w o u ld be p e rm i t t ed D /A im p o r ts f or up to 10 p er cent of t h e ir expo r ts in the p r e v i o us y e a r; f or l e a d i ng e x p o r t­ ers th is pe rcen tage w o u ld v a ry f r om 15 p er cent to 20 p er cen t, d e p e n d i ng u p on e x p o rt p e r f o rm a n c e. S u p­ p l i e rs a nd users of dom e s t ic r aw m a t e r i a ls f or e x p o rt p r o c e s s i ng w o u ld be a l l ow ed D /A im p o r ts up to U S $ 10 m i l l i o n. March 2. C e r t a in c omm em o r a t i ve g o ld c o i ns we re i s sued. T h ey we re d e c l a r ed l e g al tender but we re m a de a v a i l a b le to c o l l e c t o rs o n l y. March 6. T he t r ade p r o g r am f or the first h a lf of 1971 was p a r t i a l ly r e v i s e d. S p e c i al im p o rt f a c i l i t i es w e re g r a n t ed to en te rp r ises in free e x p o rt zones a nd e x p o rt r e s t r i c t i o ns w e re e s tab l i shed on 27 i tems in o r d er to m a i n t a in e x p o rt s tanda rd s. O ne im p o rt i t em was sh i f ted f r om the r e s t r i c t ed to the a u t om a t ic a p p r o v al c a t ego ry a nd one in the reve rse d i r e c t i o n. March 8. S ix i tems of p e t r o c h em i c al p r o d u c ts w e re b r o u g ht u n d er the p r i or a p p r o v al sys tem f or im p o r ts f r om c o u n t r i es w i th w h i ch K o r ea h ad a n o t a b ly u n f a v o r a b le t rade b a l an ce ( i n c l u d i ng J a p a n ); f o ur i tems we re e x em p t e d. May 18. T he M CI a n n o u n c ed r e v i s ed ru l es f or the im p o r t a t i on of c e r t a in m a n -m a de fibers in l i n k a ge w i th expo r t s. May 31. T he M CI p u b l i s h ed the t rade p r o g r am f or 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K O R EA the first half of 1971. Seven import items were shifted from the restricted to the automatic approval category, and four items in the opposite direction. Six export items were shifted from the automatic approval to the restricted category. June 28. The exchange rate was depreciated from W 327.40 buying, and W 328.90 selling, per US$1 to W 370.00 buying, and W 370.60 selling, per US $ 1. The new rates were maintained unchanged un t il Decem­ ber 2. June 28. The interest rate on loans to export indus­ tries for imports of raw materials was raised from 6 per cent to 9 per cent and a prior import deposit of 10 per cent was required for imports of raw materials (not available domestically) for export production. July 1. Seven import items were shifted from the restricted to the automatic approval category. July 6. The M CI announced rules for the importa­ t ion of certain restricted import items. July 8. The M CI announced rules for the pr ior approval of imports of domestically available raw mate­ rials for export production. July 12. The M CI announced rules for the importa­ tion of textile machinery and construction equipment. July 21. Twenty-one import items were shifted from the restricted to the automatic approval category. To tal 1970 imports of the 28 items liberalized in Ju ly had amounted to US$134 m i l l ion, or about 30 per cent of the 1970 import value of a ll restricted items. July 21. The M CI announced revised rules for the importation of man-made fibers in linkage with exports. August 25. Imports of two grades of ny lon yarn were shifted from the automatic approval list to the restricted list. August 31. Ko r ea notified the G A TT that it had decided to disinvoke A r t i c le X X XV of the General Agreement in respect of Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Po land, and Yugoslavia. September 1. Three items of raw material imports used in export production were shifted from the auto­ matic approval list to the restricted list. September 2. The amount of export loans that cou ld be extended to exporters was raised from W 260 per US$1 to W 290 per US $ 1. The period of repayment was extended from 135 days to 180 days for prefer­ ential export loans. A ll purchases of domestic raw mate­ rials for export processing became eligible for prefer­ ential credit. September 9. The import deposit required on raw materials that cou ld also be produced domestically was increased from 10-20 per cent to 20 -30 per cent. October 2. The Bank of Ko rea extended the repay­ ment period on loans for exports on a D / A, BW T, or consignment basis from 120 days to 180 days. October 11. The regulations governing imports from those countries with which K o r ea has a heavy trade deficit, including Japan, were revised. Four items were added to the list of commodities subject to pr ior approval and 98 were deleted. As a result, the number of items subject to such approval declined from 338 to 244. October 11. Th ir ty-four items on the automatic approval import list were shifted to the restricted list. Their 1970 import value was US$30 m i l l ion. October 14. Thirteen import items, inc lud ing rubber tires and paper and paperboard, were removed from the import quota list. The import quotas for eight items were reduced. As a result, the overall import quota for the second half of 1971 was reduced by US$1 ,095 m i l­ l ion to US$965,000. October 18. Four raw materials which cou ld be pro­ duced domestically were added to the list of imports subject to prior import deposits of 20 -30 per cent. Import items subject to advance import deposits became in addition subject to pr ior import approval. November 13. Thirty-eight import items w i th a 1970 import value of US$27 m i l l ion were shifted from the automatic approval to the restricted category. As a result, 571 S ITC items remained on the restricted import list, 668 were on the automatic approval import list, and 73 on the prohibited import list. December 1. The export-import notice for the first half of 1972 was published by the M C I. The notice made no changes on the import side, but two export items became subject to pr ior approval while one for­ merly restricted export item was shifted to the auto­ matic approval export list. The number of prohibited exports remained unchanged. December 3. The authorities resumed a flexible exchange rate po l icy. (This po l icy was continued into 1972.) December 4. The M in i s t ry of Hea l th and Social Affairs announced that pharmaceuticals previously importable on an automatic approval basis required the approval of the M in is t ry. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuw a i ti D in ar or KD 1 = US$3 .04000. The interven­ tion currency is sterling w i th exchange dealings being effected within 1 per cent of the effective parity against sterling. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.8550 buying, and KD 0.8593 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Rates for other cur­ rencies in the official market are based on London mar­ ket rates. There is a free market in which exchange other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhode­ sian currency, or South A f r i c an rand may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, differ from official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 30, 1971, the aver­ age selling rate for the U. S. dollar in the official market was KD 0.33750 per U S $ 1, and in the free market it was KD 0.33775 per U S $ 1. On A p r il 5, 1963, Kuw a it notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept formally the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agree­ ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwa i t. Con trol is exercised only over the provision of exchange in the official market for payments to terri­ tories outside the Sterling A r ea and over the manner of payment to other Sterling A r ea territories. It is administered by the Central Bank of Kuwa i t. Au tho r i ty to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, w i th in limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operating in Kuwa i t. Individual Letters of Recommen­ dation, required for other payments through the offi­ c ial market in currencies other than those of the Ster­ ling A r e a, are issued by the Central Bank. General and individual import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is tra t ion of the M in i s t ry of Finance and O i l. Prescription of Currency Kuwa it is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and the banks operating in Kuwa it observe prescription of cur­ rency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling A r e a. Payments to other countries in the Sterling A r ea except South A f r i ca may be made in sterling or another Sterling A r ea currency. Payments through the official market to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the country to which the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Sterling A r ea may be received in any Sterling A r ea currency. Apa rt from payments to the Government, payments from countries outside the Sterling A rea are not, in practice, received through the official market. A ll settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a ll private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license va l id for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also va l id for one year. A ll imports from Israel, includ­ ing imports of Israeli manufacture and those that con­ tain Israeli materials or are manufactured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and a ll imports from Por­ tugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of oxygen, certain steel pipes, alcoholic bever­ ages, and used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old are prohibited from a ll sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuw a i ti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwa i t is or a shareholding or limited l iab i l i ty company in which Kuwa i t is own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commerc ial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Sterling A r ea currencies other than South A f r i c an rand are provided freely for payments to residents of the Sterling A r ea for imports or for other purposes. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free market. The banks operating in Kuwa it are authorized to pro­ vide External Account sterling or a non-sterling cur­ rency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency for payments for imports from outside the Sterling A r e a, provided that they receive a full set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation they are satisfied that the goods w i ll be landed in Kuwa i t. When payment is made in a non-sterling currency, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommendation which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain further authoriza­ tions under new Letters of Recommendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution K UW A IT F or payments for goods purchased in countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea for resale without shipment to Kuwa i t, exchange is provided through the official mar­ ket only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale w i ll be returned to Kuwa i t; however, the pro­ ceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the official market need not be surrendered. escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South A f r i c an rand of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each family. Th is may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose, inc lud ing the transfer of capital. Th is exchange is automatically available; larger amounts require special authorization by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to resi­ dents of other Sterling A r ea countries except South A f r i c a, or to residents of any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the free market. Access to the official market is subject to authorization as stated below. Payments through the official market to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling cur­ rency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrange­ ments on payments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks operating in Kuwa it have been granted general authority to sell to K uw a i ti nationals non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency up to the equivalent of KD 500 a person for each trip for travel and other sundry expenses outside the Sterling A r e a, without specific reference to the Central Bank. F or business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three months; this allowance is applicable to a ll members of the family who accompany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in K uw a i ti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South A f r i c an currency. F or a ll other payments for invisibles to countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia which are made through the official market, a separate Letter of Recommendation must be obtained from the Central Bank for each payment. Such authori­ zation w i ll be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwa it may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwa it w i ll be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presentation of an audited statement. S im i lar ly, a Letter of Recom­ mendation w i ll be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. The Central Bank w i ll also issue to K uw a i ti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allow­ ance in any currency except Israel pounds, Portuguese 264 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohibited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwa i t. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. A ll exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian cur­ rency, or South A f r i c an rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South A f r i­ can rand. Travelers entering Kuwa it may bring w i th them any amount in K uw a i ti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South A f r i c an currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwa it of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuw a i t; except for petro­ leum companies, 51 per cent of ownership of new K uw a i ti companies must be held by K uw a i ti nationals. A l though the Central Bank supervises outward capi­ tal movements to a ll destinations, no restrictions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling A r ea except South A f r i c a, or to any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation from the Central Bank is required if a currency other than a Sterling A r ea currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in wh ich nonresident capi­ tal is involved is liquidated, permission is given auto­ matically for the repatriation through the official market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency appro­ priate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the M in i s t ry of Finance and O i l, K uw a i ti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital through the official market, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution within limits approved by the exchange control authori­ ties, to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia for investment purposes, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. L o c al banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling A r ea except in Israel, Portugal, and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by residents through the official market to countries outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a family a year (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Add i t ional amounts are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-carat fine; gold jewelry, however, K UW A IT cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly ha l l­ marked. K uw a i ti nationals may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any form are exempt from a ll customs duties and taxes. Changes during 1971 August 23. The Kuw a i ti D in ar remained pegged to sterling. As a result, it began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar from the parity relationship of KD 1 = US$2 .80. October 31. The prohibition on the import of used trucks and buses not using gasoline was lifted for such vehicles ten years old or less. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became KD 1 = US$3.04000 or US$1 = KD 0.328947. There was no change in the effective parity relationship for the pound sterling. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian K ip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US $ 1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; government require­ ments, including imports; administrative expenditures of foreign embassies and missions; 20 per cent or 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of tin ore and con­ centrates (depending on grade); 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber; 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and specified invisibles. A ll other transactions take place in an official free market in which the U. S. dollar rate is maintained at K 600 = US$1. The Na t ional Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U. S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US $ 1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not ex­ ceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. A Fore ign Exchange Operations Fund in­ tervenes in the official free market to maintain orderly conditions and to counteract the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Administration of Control The Na t ional Exchange Office of the M in i s t ry of Finance authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import program, authorizes payments at the official rate for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy issues export licenses. The four commercial banks are author­ ized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the Na t ional Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U. S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U. S. S. R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French francs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are not permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments A ll importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, soft drinks, and plas­ tic bags are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accordance with the import program financed by the Un i ted States; (2) a ll other imports, for which the importer has to supply 266 his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. Imports under the aid program are payable at the official rate, as are a ll public sector imports. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the Un i ted States; these commodities must be imported from the Un i ted States. Under the U. S. import program, importers apply to the Na t ional Exchange Office for licenses. After clearance in respect of valuation and approval by the U. S. Agency for International Development, the exchange licenses automatically become import licenses. Under the program, suppliers are paid direct from the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U. S. Gove rn­ ment at the Chase Manhattan Bank of N ew Y o rk in favor of the Lao t ian Government, after the goods involved have been certified as conforming to the list of commodities qualified for foreign financing. The Na t ional Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import program, with the exception of imports to meet government requirements. However, importers are free to obtain exchange through the free market for any amount of imports. Under the U. S. import program, a ll importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened (50 per cent for tractors, with the balance to be paid w i th in three years after purchase). F or customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 600 per U S $ 1; for a ll other goods it is K 240 per U S $ 1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection w i th imports under the foreign aid import program are regarded as a part of the import payment. There is an annual foreign exchange budget for payments for invisibles payable at the official rate. The categories of payments for invisibles for which the Na t ional Bank sells foreign exchange in accordance with this budget are as follows: official trans­ fers, covering official expenditures by the Government; part of the loan service payments by certain public enterprises; private transfers, covering installation allow­ ances of c i v il servants abroad and study abroad ( in i t ial installation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, transport, and other miscellaneous expenses); and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. A ll other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted through the free market. The purchaser of foreign exchange must identify himself, however, and indicate the purpose of the payment or transfer. There are no regulations l im i t ing the export of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. A ll other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are automatically issued. Twenty or 40 per cent of proceeds from exports of tin ore and concen­ trates, depending on grade, 20 per cent of proceeds from exports of lumber and 10 per cent of a ll other export proceeds must be surrendered in U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the Na t ional Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad, sold in the free market, or used for any other purpose. Exporters are required to deposit w i th the Na t ional Bank, pr ior to dom ic i l ing the export license w i th this Bank, the portion of their anticipated export proceeds that is subject to surrender; the Na t ional Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been annotated by the Na t ional Bank to show that this requirement has been complied w i th. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles The following must be surrendered at the official rate: (1) foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos (other than salaries of foreign employees); (2) settlements received by any Laotian resident from foreign insurance companies; and (3) resident companies' foreign exchange earnings from services and other invisibles. Cer ta in public enterprises, such as Roy al A ir L ao, are exempt from the surrender requirement. There are no regulations l im i t ing the import of foreign or domestic banknotes by travelers. Capital Cap i tal may flow in and out, free from any exchange control requirements, through the free market. The pur­ chaser of foreign exchange must identify himself, how­ ever, and indicate the purpose of the payment or transfer. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in L A OS any form within the country. Banks and other residents who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely import gold in any form, subject to payment of 3.5 per cent customs duty (calculated at the free market rate for the U. S. dollar and US$38 an ounce); large importers may be able to negotiate a lower duty. Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or jur id ical persons other than the monetary authorities are prohibited, with the exception of gold coins issued under Decree N o. 7 8 4 / PC of June 26, 1969. Commer­ c ial imports and exports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold are freely permitted. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year, the number of import commodities that could be financed at the official rate was further reduced. April 29. The import duty on gold was reduced from 5.5 per cent to 3.5 per cent. August 23. The official rate and the free market rate were maintained at K 240 and K 505 per U. S. dollar, respectively. November 4. Exchange transactions were suspended. They were resumed on November 8. November 8. The free market rate was depreciated from K 505 to K 600 per US $ 1. November 8. Transfers abroad for the servicing of certain types of public debt, wh ich had been shifted from the official to the free market for fiscal year 1970 /71, were shifted back to the official market. November 8. Residents and nonresidents could no longer maintain demand deposits in foreign currencies with authorized banks or other financial institutions. On November 19, the prohibition was extended to foreign embassies and missions and their personnel. November 8. Buyers of foreign exchange were required to identify themselves and specify the purpose of the intended payment or transfer. December 21. The official rate and the free market rate were maintained at K 240 and K 600 per U. S. dollar, respectively. December 31. The import program for petroleum products financed by the Un i ted States expired. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System A ll transactions take place at the free market rate, which for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 was about LL 3.14 per US $ 1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac­ tions with certain countries with wh ich Lebanon has payments agreements 1 specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and a ll imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive o i l, molasses, brushes, pou l­ try, gasoline, kerosene, and l iqu id gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to pr ior licens­ ing. Import licenses are also required for a ll machinery for the installation or expansion of manufacturing plants. Import licenses for raw and refined sugar are conditional on purchases of domestic sugar. A ll other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of a ll goods imported by sea or air and a stamp tax of 1.2 per cent is applicable to a ll imports except gold and banknotes. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified tex­ tiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. 1 Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Poland, and Rumania. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of i ron, cast i ron, lead, and tin) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and a ll exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items —such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, apples, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum and petroleum products, industrial and agri­ cultural machines and equipment, and certain metals— to any country and all products intended for export to N o r th Ko r ea require export licenses. Exports of apples to A r ab countries are limited to a specified monthly quota. Re-exports to N o r th Ko r ea are subject to prior clearance by the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form w i th residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely per­ mitted and do not require a license. However, the import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1971 February 3. The bilateral payments agreement with the U. S>. S. R. was terminated. Settlements had been on a convertible currency basis since Ju ly 16, 1970. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It was reopened on August 18. A ll exchange transactions con­ tinued to take place at free market rates and there were no changes in exchange regulations. December 21. The operation of the free exchange market continued unchanged. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LE SOTHO Exchange and Trade System Lesotho's currency is the South A f r i c an Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.09135 grams of fine gold per rand, wh ich corresponds to R 1 = S DR 1.23. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is US$1 = R 0.75. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and on international market rates for the currencies concerned. Lesotho is regarded as forming part of the South Afr ican exchange control territory 1 and of the Sterling A rea. By virtue of a Customs U n i on Agreement w i th Botswana, South A f r i c a, and Swaziland, Lesotho also is part of the South A f r i c an customs area. No restric­ tions are applied on trade or payments with the members of the common customs and monetary area. In relation to countries outside this area, Lesotho's exchange controls are generally applied similarly to those of South A f r i c a, although Lesotho treats certain transactions in securities within the Sterling A r ea in a more liberal manner. In principle, payments for trans­ actions that are considered current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward capital transfers are considered on their merits. A ll payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance. F or some types of transactions the approval authority is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult ( R 8 00 for a c h i l d ). Separately, there is another basic allocation of R 250 a year for an adult (R 100 for a ch i ld) for travel to certain neighboring territories.2 There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Trade with a ll countries passes through South A f r ican 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Lesotho are not regarded as residents of South Africa. 2 Malawi, Portuguese East and West Africa, Rhodesia, Zaire, and Zambia. territory. Imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Afr ica's import regulations, since few Lesotho firms import direct from countries other than South A f r i c a; direct imports from such countries, how­ ever, are not subject to South A f r ica 's import regula­ tions. Lesotho's own trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion and are confined in practice to exports of diamonds; permits are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce. Inward capital transfers do not require exchange control approval. Outward capital transfers to Sterling A r ea countries are freely permitted, provided that the funds have been generated within Lesotho. The authority for approving capital transfers to countries outside the Sterling A r ea rests with the Lesotho Gove rn­ ment, which acts in cooperation w i th the Reserve Bank of South A f r i c a. Cer ta in tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encouragement A c t, 1969 to manufacturing activities approved by a Pioneer Industries Board. Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell certain Lesotho gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1971 August 23. The gold parity of the rand and the exist­ ing parity relationship for the U. S. dollar of R 1 = US$1 .40 were maintained. The rand was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. December 21. The par value of the rand was changed from 1.24414 to 1.09135 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became R 1 = US$1.33 or US$1 = R 0.75. December 22. The rand was repegged from the U. S. dollar to sterling. The Reserve Bank quoted fixed ex­ change rates for sterling and ceased to quote fixed buy­ ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per L ibe r ian Do l la r. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is $ 1 =U S $ 1. U . S. currency is in c ircu la­ tion along w i th L ibe r ian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require pr ior licenses; no imports of cement and shotgun shells are permitted at present. A l s o, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcotics other than for medicinal pur­ poses) and a ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. In practice, meat is imported only by the L ibe r ian Supply Corporation and petroleum and petroleum products only by the L ibe r ian Refining Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explosives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and or ig in and to safeguard the monopoly of the L ibe r ian Produce Ma rke t ing Corporation. The surren­ der of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non­ residents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enter­ prises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemption and tariff exemptions on construction materials, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in manufacturing opera­ tions. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Secretary of the Treasury; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Under the G o ld Agreement of 1958, the Bank of Mon rov ia, acting on behalf of the Government, purchases unrefined gold from local producers at US$34 .00 a troy ounce, gross weight. Af ter refining abroad this gold may be sold on the free market by the Government. Changes during 1971 August 23. The exchange rate for the U . S. dollar was maintained at L ibe r ian $1 = U S $ 1. December 21. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was maintained at L ibe r ian $1 =U S $ 1. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per L iby an D ina r. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 1 = US$3 .04000. The L iby an A r ab Republic avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of L i b ya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 13 currencies.1 It deals w i th commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U. S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank of L ibya's rates for the U. S. dollar on December 30, 1971 were LD 0.33444 buying, and LD 0.33612 selling, per U S $ 1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were LD 0.85200 and LD 0.85628, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U. S. dollars through their foreign correspondents or branches. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for curren­ cies other than sterling and U. S. dollars are based on quotations in London, N ew Y o r k, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in for­ eign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commit­ ments in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of L i b y a, wh ich has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Po l icy relating to import and export licensing is determined by the M in i s t ry of Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy; for certain imports the approval of another M in i s t ry (Interior, Hea l th, Agr icu l ture and Ag ra r ian Reform, or Defense) is required. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, and a number of foodstuffs are a government monopoly. Imports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Central Bank of L i b y a. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th other countries are made in conver­ tible currencies, usually U. S. dollars or pounds sterling. A ll settlements w i th Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rho­ desia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank of L i b y a, who is gainfully employed in the L iby an A r ab Republic is permitted under the existing exchange con­ trol regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in L iby an dinars with any authorized bank in 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U . S. dollars. the L iby an A r ab Republic. Legitimate earnings from employers of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. S im i lar ly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. A ll other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank of L iby a. Remittances abroad from such accounts main­ tained by nonresident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board w i ll be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident laborers and technicians within the limits mentioned. To tal permissi­ ble remittances in any calendar year from a nonresident account are reduced, however, by the value of specified imported goods (including automobiles and electrical domestic appliances) taken out by a nonresident when going abroad. Funds brought into the L iby an A r ab Republic by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" w i th a bank in the Republic. Payments received in the L iby an A r ab Republic by such con­ tractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from the L iby an A r ab Republic to the debit of these accounts are subject to the pr ior approval of the Central Bank of L i b y a. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. W i th the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the L ibyan A r ab Republic up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the L iby an A r ab Republic by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in the L ibyan A r ab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify for remit­ tance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer­ tain exceptions) who have left the L ibyan A r ab Republic permanently are being released in installments; balances credited pr ior to M a r ch 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. The import of 11 items or groups of items is prohibited. There are two lists of imports subject to individual licensing. One list comprises some 50 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution L I B Y AN A R AB R E P U B L IC from the M in i s t ry of Economy; these goods include many foodstuffs, motor vehicles, agricultural and indus­ t r ial machinery, and television sets. Goods on the other list, wh ich contains 6 items or groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry pr ior to the granting of an import license; the goods include weap­ ons, fireworks and explosives, and drugs. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, sugar, salt, tea, rice, barley, wheat, wheat flour, olive o i l, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are subject to govern­ ment monopoly; they may be imported only by the Na t ional O il Corporation, the Na t ional Supply Organi­ zation, or the Government Tobacco Factory. The Cen­ tral Bank of L ibya has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. A ll imports from Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from an insurance company in the L iby an A r ab Repub­ l ic is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an author­ ized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, w i th in two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Con t rol Department of the Central Bank of L i b ya is required for advance payments. Deferred pay­ ments (for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs surcharges and addi­ tional customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. payments for invisibles, as we ll as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require licenses from the Central Bank of L i b y a. A p p l i­ cations are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them L iby an currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 ( LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the L iby an A r ab Republic, but are intended for immediate expenses in the L iby an A r ab Republic upon return to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, inc lud ing tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 in a ca l­ endar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the L iby an A r ab Republic. Ch i ld ren under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of LD 300 in addition to the basic travel allowance. F or business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 500 a trip, subject to a maximum of LD 2,500 in any ca l­ endar year. A ll fares may be settled in L iby an dinars in the L iby an A r ab Repub l ic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for commodities wh ich are not of L iby an or ig in. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited. A ll exports to Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 50 in a calender year 2 for meeting genuine per­ sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature. They may also approve transfers abroad of up to LD 750 a year for each student for educational pur­ po s e s3 as we ll as allocations for travel as indicated below. Remittances from nonresident accounts may be approved by authorized banks up to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). A ll other Fore ign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank of L i b y a. Travelers entering the L ibyan A r ab Republic may bring w i th them L iby an currency notes, not exceeding a total of LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital 2 On January 1, 1972, the facility was increased to LD 100 a calendar year. 8 On January 1, 1972, the delegated authorities for allocations for study abroad were increased. Students not on government scholarships could obtain the same amounts of foreign exchange previously granted to those studying under government sponsorship. The new allocations vary according to country and level of education. Students attending graduate schools in the United States could obtain the equivalent of LD 1,320 a year plus an annual book allowance, tuition fees, etc. M any aspects of the activities of o il companies oper­ ating in the L iby an A r ab Republic are governed by Petroleum L aw N o. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Cap i tal Investment L aw N o. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic develop- 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by foreign nationals. Fore ign participation in new industrial ven­ tures (i.e., after M a r ch 20, 1970) is permitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased produc­ tion in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been national­ ized. Commerc ial firms have been L ibyan ized in vary­ ing degrees. Real estate in the L iby an A r ab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, save in exceptional circumstances spe­ cified in a law of M ay 24, 1960 governing this subject. The let i>ales proceeds after tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of L i b y a. Nonresident- owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Bank of L i b ya to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require pr ior permission to purchase real estate situated outside the L iby an A r ab Republic or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the L i b y an A r ab Republic taking up permanent resi­ dence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LD 5,000 for a family; applications may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form other than bars in the L iby an A r ab Repub l ic. The Central Bank of L i b y a, acting on behalf of the Government, has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced from time to time; at the end of 1971 this price was LD 558 a k i log ram .4 Provided that a license is obtained from the M in i s t ry of Economy, gold­ smiths may have such gold processed abroad, after wh ich it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Central Bank of L i b ya must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for processing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the Government. Unwo rked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year, imports of flour, rice, tea, and ani­ mal foodstuffs became subject to ind iv idual licensing, 4 Increased to LD 572 on February 9, 1972. L I B Y AN A R AB R E P U B L IC and a number of commodities were added to the list of prohibited imports. January 15. The authorized banks were prohibited from establishing letters of credit for imports unless the marine insurance was covered w i th an insurance com­ pany in the L iby an A r ab Republic. February 1. Expatriates gainfully employed in the private sector and holding work permits were allowed to maintain nonresident accounts in L iby an dinars, and to make remittances therefrom, also after they had stayed in the country for six years. March 14. Foreign nationals resident outside L i b ya were permitted to transfer abroad their income from the rental of land and buildings situated in the L i b y an A r ab Republic. April 17. Eighteen essential commodities, including certain medicines and foodstuffs, were admitted free of customs duty. June 16. To tal permissible remittances in any calen­ dar year from nonresident accounts were reduced by the value of specified imported goods, including automo­ biles and electrical domestic appliances, taken out by a nonresident when going abroad. July 28. The authorized banks received delegated authority to approve, subject to compliance w i th va r i­ ous conditions, applications for import payments when the shipping documents were received direct by importers. August 1. The export of scrap metals was prohibited. August 16. The par value in terms of gold was main­ tained. It was, however, decided that for the time being the market rate for the national currency would not necessarily be maintained w i th in the previously existing limits. The Bank of L ibya suspended the publication of buying and selling rates for major foreign currencies; their publication was resumed on August 28. August 30. Imports and exports could only be effected by registered traders of L iby an nationality. September 1. A ll insurance companies were national­ ized. September 1. By virtue of L aw N o. 63 of August 26, 1971 the L iby an dinar replaced the L iby an pound as the national currency. The par value in terms of gold remained unchanged at LD 1 = 2.48828 grams of fine gold. The dinar continued to float in terms of both the U. S. dollar and the pound sterling. September 1. L aw N o. 63 changed the name of the central bank from the Bank of L i b ya to the Central Bank of L i b y a. September 9. The Na t ional Supply Organization was established. It was given a monopoly over imports of salt and sugar. December 7. A major o il producer, owned by a for­ eign government, was nationalized. December 15. The L iby an A r ab Republic ceased to be a member of the Sterling A r e a. December 20. The facility enabling residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 50 in a calendar year for 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution L I B Y AN A R AB R E P U B L IC meeting genuine personal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature was extended to family assist­ ance and gifts. December 22. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became LD 1 = US$3.04000 and that for sterling became LD 0.85 = <£stg. 1. The L iby an A r ab Republic availed itself of wider margins. The Central Bank resumed publication of buying and selling rates for quoted currencies. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established w i th the F u n d. The unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, wh ich is officially maintained at the rate of F MG 1 = 0.02 F rench franc. Exchange transactions in F rench francs, the intervention currency, between the Malagasy Institute of Issue and commercial banks take place at the rate of F MG 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the F rench Franc A rea, take place in a dual exchange market, at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the finan­ c ial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, e tc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements w i th foreign countries, as we ll as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity rela­ tionship for the U. S. dollar in this market is F MG 255.785 = U S $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, the Malagasy Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, M a u r i­ tania, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except the Malagasy Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan­ c ial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of Finance, which also supervises borrow­ ing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Most of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. A ll payments and receipts between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, through the intermediary of the institution executing the transfer. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal A dm i n­ istration. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce in the M in is t ry of Commerce, except those for gold, wh ich are issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, which also grants export licenses for gold. Export authoriza­ tions are issued either by the Fore ign Trade Bureau (and its provincial offices) or by other specified public agencies, mainly stabilization funds or marketing offices for agricultural products. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a; since the Malagasy Institute of Issue maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in Malagasy francs, F rench francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F in an­ c ial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Malagasy bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in M a l a­ gasy Francs, provided that they are mailed direct from abroad to the Malagasy Institute of Issue by the for­ eign correspondents of authorized banks. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of Malagasy bank­ notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from n o n -EEC countries outside the F rench Franc A r ea are subject to import licensing. F or protective reasons, a few imports are subject to licens­ ing, irrespective of origin or port of shipment; the import of certain other items from a ll sources is pro­ hibited or suspended until further notice. A ll other goods that both originate in and are shipped from the French Franc A r e a, or that originate in and are shipped from E EC countries other than France, may be imported freely. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of fruit juices are conditional on purchases of domestic fruit juices (jumelage). Imports of house- 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A G A SY R E P U B L IC hold soap are conditional on purchases of Ivory Coast household soap. F or restricted imports from n o n -EEC countries out­ side the F rench Franc A r ea an annual import program is established. The import program is based on the establishment of global quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license (or import certificates for liberalized commodities) entitle importers to purchase the neces­ sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun­ tries are subject to the approval of the Office of Exter­ nal Finance or the Malagasy Institute of Issue. How­ ever, residents may at any time make payments to foreign countries up to the equivalent of F MG 15,000, without supporting documentation, provided that such payments are made through an authorized bank and do not constitute installment payments (reglements frac- tionnes). Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera­ tions Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to F MG 175,000 a person a trip; any foreign exchange in excess of F MG 5,000 remaining after return to the Malagasy Republic must be surrendered. Bona fide requests for amounts in excess of the basic allocation are approved. In addition, an exchange allowance equivalent to at most F MG 100,000 a person a year is granted for pilgrimages to Mecca. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equiva­ lent of F MG 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maxi­ mum of F MG 400,000 a person a trip; additional amounts may be requested from the Malagasy Insti­ tute of Issue. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Malagasy Republic is per­ mitted upon presentation of his employment contract, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of F MG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Travelers to France and Operations Account countries may take out any amount in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign banknotes and coins declared by them on entry, as we ll as foreign currency obtained by reconversion of 276 Malagasy banknotes purchased after entry, but not more than F MG 25,000 may be so reconverted. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to a ll destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the appropriate commodity stabili­ zation office; these products include coffee, van i l la, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petro­ leum products. An export license issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau is required for a ll commodities valued at more than F MG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc A r e a. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than 180 days after arr ival of the goods at their destination. A ll export transac­ tions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and a commitment to repa­ triate the proceeds must be undertaken. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date. Res i­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of Malagasy banknotes and coins and banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury, as well as any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. Capital Cap i tal movements between the Malagasy Republic and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. A ll inward and outward transfers must be notified to the Malagasy Institute of Issue once a month to facilitate the compi­ lation of the balance of payments; for those in excess of F MG 500,000 the reason must be specified. Th is notification must be made by the financial intermediary concerned. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over the issuing, advertis­ ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Repub l ic; these controls relate to the transac­ tions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution formalities are also required for inward and outward direct investment. W i th the exception of those over for­ eign securities, the control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun­ tries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Fore ign direct investments in the Malagasy Repub­ l i c ,1 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,2 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance (i.e., to the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of Finance) when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest­ ment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial l iqu ida­ tion of such investments must also be declared. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or for­ eign investments in the Malagasy Republic, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance w i th in 20 days fo l­ lowing each operation. D irect investments are defined as investments invo lv ing the purchase, creation, or expansion of a company or enterprise or involving con­ trol over it. Me re participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in the Malagasy Republic requires pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the M a l a­ gasy Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been authorized. Borrow ing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi­ dence or registered office is in the Malagasy Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Repub­ l ic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest­ ment, wh ich are subject to pr ior declaration, as ind i­ cated above; (2) loans directly connected with the ren­ dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of commercial transactions either between the Malagasy Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in wh ich 1 Including those made by companies in the Malagasy Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Republic of foreign com­ panies. 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Mala­ gasy Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Republic. M A L A G A SY R E P U B L IC these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks or credit institutions w i th special legal status; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F MG 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The amount of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization must be notified to the Minister of Finance when it is more than F MG 500,000 but less than F MG 50 m i l l ion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization, and is restricted. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem­ ber 1962, as amended by L aw N o. 65-022 of Decem­ ber 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the intro­ duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualifying for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a founding agreement (convention d'eta- blissement); such an agreement requires parliamentary approval. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Malagasy Republic. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Exempt from this require­ ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the Malagasy Institute of Issue and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con­ taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declara­ tion. New ly mined gold must be surrendered to the M in is t ry of Industry and M ines wh ich, in principle, must deliver it to the Malagasy Institute of Issue after processing. Changes during 1971 May 22. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of F MG 75,000 a person a trip, for two trips a year, to F MG 100,000 a person a trip for two trips a year. August 14. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was further increased to the equivalent of F MG 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year. The maximum exchange allocation for business travel was increased from the equivalent of F MG 200,000 to F MG 400,000 a person a tr ip. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A G A SY R E P U B L IC August 14. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. September 4. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in the Malagasy Republic. The exchange rate for the F rench franc remained fixed at F MG 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at F MG 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. Malagasy banknotes mailed to the M a l a­ gasy institute of issue by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 4. The exchange allocations for transfers to emigrants, transfers of dowries, and maintenance of buildings situated abroad were increased. September 4. Emigrants could transfer abroad a ll their assets after having resided abroad for two years. September 4. Import payments could be made one month before shipment. The regulations governing advance payments for imports were liberalized. September 11. Payment for imports from foreign countries valued at F MG 200,000 or more could not be made later than three months after customs clear­ ance (two years for capital goods). (This measure was subsequently revoked.) December 22. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at F MG 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became F MG 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per M a l awi Kw a ch a. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is MK 1 -US$1 .30286, and M a l awi does not avail itself of wider margins. The pound sterling, the rate for wh ich is MK 1 = £ 0 . 5, is the intervention currency. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of M a l awi under powers delegated to it by the M in is ter of Finance. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks designated as authorized dealers. Import po l icy is formulated by the M in is ter of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The M in is ter is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency M a l awi is a member of the Sterling A r ea and main­ tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the Un i ted K i n g d om .1 F or prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling A r ea (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and a ll other countries except Rhodesia (the Ex ternal Account A r e a ). Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea may be made in M a l awi kwacha through a Nonresident Scheduled A r ea Accoun t, in sterling, or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in M a l awi kwacha to the credit of an External Accoun t, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from resi­ dents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in M a l awi kwacha from an Ex ternal Accoun t, or in any non- Sterling A r ea currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in M a l awi kwacha held by residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea are designated Non­ resident Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from sales of any Sterling A r ea currency, w i th authorized payments to Sterling A r ea countries by residents, and w i th transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled A r ea Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling A r ea currencies, may be used to make pay­ ments to residents of M a l awi for any purpose, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled A r ea Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in M a l aw i. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in M a l awi kwacha held w i th authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in M a l awi or any other Sterling A r ea territory, with individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled A r ea Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling A r ea currency except Rhodesian currency by non­ residents to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of M a l awi and of any other country of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts held in M a l awi or any other Sterling A r ea territory, or to Nonresident Scheduled A r ea Accounts in M a l aw i, and for pur­ chases of any Sterling A r ea or non-Sterling A r ea cur­ rency other than Rhodesian currency from authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in M a l aw i. External Accounts —Rhodesia are accounts in M a l awi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in M a l aw i, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian External Accoun t. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of M a l awi for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in M a l aw i; (3) trans­ fers to another Rhodesian External Accoun t; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in M a l awi kwacha held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than M a l awi are credited with nontransferable capital sums in M a l awi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require the pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in M a l awi securities, provided that these are held in M a l awi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Malawi) are considered foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the p r inc ipal import restric- 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A WI tions is the Con t rol of Goods A c t, wh ich authorizes the Minister of Trade and Industry to control and regulate the import, export, distribution, disposal, pur­ chase, sale, wholesale price, and retail price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought into operation, w i ll require all importers and exporters to be registered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig i ron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. F or a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of or ig in. A ll other goods may be imported free of license when originating in the Sterling A r ea or, if originating in certain other countries,3 may be imported under an open general license (with the exception that a limited number of goods from Czechoslovakia and Japan require a specific license). W i th respect to other countries,4 an import license is required for a ll commodities except certain items, such as petroleum products, exposed cinemato­ graphic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding MK 50 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Payments for imports from a ll countries must be made within six months after the date of import. Fore ign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presenta­ tion of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. A ny transfer of funds in antici­ pation of imports is prohibited, except with the per­ mission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to MK 100 on presentation of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports from any Sterling A r ea country may be paid for in M a l awi currency to a local Nonresident Sched­ uled A r ea Accoun t, in sterling, or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Imports from other areas, except Rhodesia, may be paid for in M a l awi currency to a local External Accoun t, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling A r e a, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency. A surtax of 10 per cent is levied on most goods imported into M a l aw i, irrespective of their or ig in; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, news print and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, hoes, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Khmer Republic, Republic of Korea, Liechtenstein, Lux­ embourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Swit­ zerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vatican City, Yugoslavia, and Zaire. 4 Poland and all countries that are not contracting parties to the GATT. 280 value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each ch i ld under 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for ch i l­ dren between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. The annual allowance is not cumu­ lative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. These allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, family remittances, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the stand­ ard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in M a l awi on contracts or holding a temporary employ­ ment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in M a l awi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or w i ll be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of M a l awi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Cer ta in commod i t ie s5 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the ade­ quacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in M a l awi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the 5 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy mate­ rials, and certain agricultural and animal products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repay­ ment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital, inc lud­ ing those to other parts of the Sterling A r e a, are con­ trolled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authori­ ties that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside M a l aw i; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local bor­ rowing. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange which accrues to them. However, residents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securi­ ties) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling A r e a, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the country concerned. A ll income earned from these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Marr ied persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together w i th MK 500 for each ch i ld, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unmarr ied persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigra­ tion allowance on each anniversary of his departure from M a l aw i, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. App l i c a­ tions for emigrants' allowances, whether in i t ial or sub­ sequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require pr ior approval to lend to non­ residents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside M a l aw i. App roval to lend to M A L A WI nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrow­ ing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. Gold Residents of M a l awi may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in M a l awi for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authori­ ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation w i th the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1971 February 15. The kwacha replaced the M a l awi pound. The new unit was equivalent to ten shillings of the previous currency. The par value of the M a l awi kwacha was 1.06641 grams of fine gold per kwacha, or MK 1= US$1 .20. The new rate for sterling, with wh ich the M a l awi pound had been at par, became MK 1 = , £ 0 . 5. The change d id not involve any appre­ ciation or depreciation. March 12. The customs surcharge (additional duty) of 8M$ per cent of the import duty was reduced to n i l, but the rate of surtax was raised from 5 per cent to 10 per cent. April 23. Cassava was placed on the restricted list of imports and exports. August 23. The kwacha remained pegged to sterling at MK 1 = <£0.5. As a result, the kwacha began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. August 30. A directive was issued requiring repatria­ tion of foreign exchange earnings due to residents of M a l awi when resulting from the pursuit of any trade or business or any other gainful occupation carried out by them in M a l aw i. December 22. M a l awi maintained the par value of the kwacha in terms of gold. The effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar became MK 1 = US$1.30286. The rate for sterling remained MK 1 = £ 0 . 5. M a l awi d id not avail itself of wider margins. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Do l l a r. The Central Bank of Malaysia stands ready to buy Malaysian currency against sterling at M$7 .4200 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Ma lays ian currency for sterling at M$7 .2750 per <£ stg. 1; no commission is charged. The Central Bank normally deals at the exchange limits and dealings by the Bank are made only in the spot market. The Bank has not established official buying and selling rates for other currencies. The com­ mercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling A r ea currencies and for specified cur­ rencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quota­ tions for Malaysian dollars against sterling in the K u a la Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1971, the market rate for the U . S. dollar was M$2 .89 per U S $ 1. Au thor ized banks are permitted to deal forward in a ll currencies. Ma lays ian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. Ma lays ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government through­ out Ma lays ia. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Ma lays ia is carried out jointly by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Exc i se .2 Prescription of Currency Ma lays ia is a member of the Sterling A rea and generally follows the prescription of currency arrange­ ments and the sterling payments system of the Un i ted K ingdom. A ll payments to and from Sterling A r ea countries must be made in a Sterling A r ea currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling A r e a, other than Rhodesia, may be made either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling A r ea through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rho- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro­ ner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether­ lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 There are at present five separate customs areas: West Malaysia, excluding Penang; Sabah, excluding Labuan; Sarawak; Penang; and Labuan. Labuan and Penang are free ports. 2 82 desia must be obtained either in Ma lays ian dollars or another currency of the Sterling A rea through an Exter­ nal Account, or in any specified currency. Special regu­ lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling A rea are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling A rea currency other than Rhodesian currency sold to a bank in Ma lays ia, with transfers of Malaysian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to coun­ tries outside the Sterling A rea. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rho­ desian Accounts. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Ma lays ia have not yet been fully unified, although steps toward unification are being taken. Some internal tariffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Ma lays ia. Most imports are permitted freely under open general license. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions pending the introduction of pro­ tective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from South A f r i c a, Rhodesia, or any territory admin­ istered by either are prohibited. Imports into a ll parts of Ma lays ia of a ll commodities from mainland C h i na are prohibited except under specific license. Imports into a ll parts of Ma lays ia of a ll commodities from East­ ern Germany and N o r th Ko rea also require specific licenses. Imports into West Ma lays ia of primates from a ll sources, including East Ma lays ia, are prohibited except under specific license; imports of bones, bone meal, and other live animals (except sheep and goats) from B ru­ nei, Burma, Indonesia, the Khmer Republic, Laos, Tha i­ land, and V i e t -N am also require a specific license. Imports into Sarawak of live sheep and goats from a ll sources, including West Ma lays ia and Sabah, are pro­ hibited except under specific license. In respect of West Ma lays ia, imports of rice from any country are condi­ tional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from the government reserve stockpile for every ton ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution impo r t ed ;3 imports of wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar 4 from a ll sources are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons; licenses for wheat flour and sugar are not being issued. Other goods subject to quantitative restriction in West Ma lays ia include rolled oats, certain cotton fabrics, jute, and fully assembled motor vehicles. Exchange control approval for import payments is required only when the payee is resident outside the Sterling A r e a. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for a ll permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are permitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. V i r tua l ly a ll imports into Ma lays ia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 4 per cent ad valorem, unless they are re-exported ex-bond; a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling A rea may be made freely. Payments related to com­ mercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements per­ mit family remittances to mainland Ch ina to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a family in any one month, but additional amounts may be transferred through the banking system. Remit­ tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on a ll bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Ma lays ia by trav­ elers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Ma lays ian notes that may be taken out of Ma lays ia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. N o n­ resident travelers are allowed to take out foreign cur­ rency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Ma lays ia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Ma lays ian territory. A ll exports from Malaysia to countries outside the Sterling A r ea have to be authorized by a bank in Ma lays ia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Ma lays ia. Malaysian exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Ma lays ia for a ll such exports M A L A Y S IA valued at M$5 ,000 or more. Th is requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance w i th the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank in Ma lays ia. Exports of rubber from West Ma lays ia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and t in to South A f r i ca and any territory administered by South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may bring in M$ 1,000; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Ma lays ian notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rhodesia .5 No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling A r e a. Inward and outward capital transfers between Ma lays ia and coun­ tries outside the Sterling A r ea require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident- owned funds in Ma lays ia in most cases is subject to ind iv idual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; otherwise, invest­ ment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been approved by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry are not restricted. The transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea of capital held or accruing in Ma lays ia is generally per­ mitted but requires pr ior exchange control approval. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling A r ea may be made upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry or ornaments. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trading in gold 3 This ratio is varied from time to time depending on the turnover of official stocks. 4 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses listed under specified tariff numbers. 5 Travelers are allowed to bring in Indian rupee notes up to Rs 270 a person and Indonesian rupiah notes up to Rp 3,000 a person. The import of Rhodesian currency notes is prohibited. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L A Y S IA coins other than the M$100 gold coin of Ma lays ian currency and the S$150 gold coin of Singapore cur­ rency (unless these are part of ornaments, dealing in which is unrestricted). Resident and nonresident travel­ ers between Ma lays ia and Singapore, however, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one M$100 gold coin and one S$150 gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore. Goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control authorities to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, pro­ ducers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs A c t, 1967, and require licenses from the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry, which may consult the exchange control authorities. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. The importation of gold into West Ma lays ia is allowed only by authorized dealers in gold, subject to an overall quota of 40,000 ounces a quarter; a certain amount of gold (5,000 ounces a quarter for Sabah and 7,500 ounces a quarter for Sara­ wak) is permitted to be imported into East Malaysia solely for the manufacture of ornaments. In both East and West Ma lays ia, imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import duty and a 4 per cent surtax. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations. Changes during 1971 April 30. By amendment of the B i l ls of Exchange Ordinance, 1949, foreign currency was defined as any currency other than currency (a) of the Federa­ t ion; or (b) which by reason of any agreement or arrangement entered into between the Central Bank and any other monetary authority of another country was deemed to be interchangeable with the currency of the Federation. August 24. Foreign exchange dealings, which had been suspended on August 17, were resumed, in i t ia l ly for spot sterling only. Transactions in other currencies were resumed on August 25. August 24. The fixed relationship between the M a l ay­ sian dollar and the pound sterling (<£ stg. 1 = M$7 .3469) was maintained. As a result, the Malaysian dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U . S. dollar from the previous level of M$3 .06122 = U S $ 1. August 24. The Central Bank widened its support rates for sterling from 3A per cent to 1 per cent either side of parity. August 30. A gold coin of M $ 1 00 was issued. Res i­ dent and nonresident travelers between Ma lays ia and Singapore could freely take out or bring in one such coin. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained, as was the fixed relationship between the Malaysian dollar and the pound sterling. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became M$2.81955 = U S $ 1. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of M a li has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the M a li Franc, defined as a mone­ tary unit containing 0.0016 gram of fine gold. The M a li franc is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 = 0 . 01 French franc, and there also is a fixed rate of MF 2 for C FA francs. M a li operates a dual exchange market for trans­ actions with foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries.1 Transactions for the following take place at exchange rates based on those ru l ing in the official exchange mar­ ket in Paris: imports and exports, incidental expenses on imports and exports, current payments made or received by the M a l i an state or public authorities, and current payments made in favor of or received from foreign states or public authorities. A ll other transac­ tions with foreign countries take place at rates based on those ru l ing in the financial franc market in Paris. In transactions eligible for the official market, the effec­ tive parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is US$1 = MF 511.570. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of M a l i. Licenses for imports are issued by the Directorate-General of Econom ic Affairs in the M in i s t ry of Finance and Commerce. Exchange control is applicable only to foreign countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, main­ land Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hungary, Mo rocco, Po land, Ruman ia, Senegal, the U. S. S. R ., and No r th V i e t -N am .2 M a li is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A rea, since its Central Bank maintains an Opera­ tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea are made in M a li francs, French francs, or the currency of any other 1 These are countries whose institute of issue maintains an Opera­ tions Account with the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 The payments arrangements with Morocco and Senegal are inop­ erative. The payments agreement with Bulgaria expired on Decem­ ber 31, 1971. Operations Account country. Settlements w i th a ll other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in F rench francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are in principle based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of a ll other goods, irrespective of origin, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program drawn up by a joint F rench -Ma l ian Committee. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the con­ vertible area (defined as comprising a ll other countries, including the French F ranc A r e a ). Certain aid-financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de lTmport-Export ( S O M I E X) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of five items.3 A ll imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with M a li are made by S O M I EX or Un icoop. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the l im it of the quota accorded to h im. In addition, importers may with an import license import any goods under the E X IC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) procedure. The author­ ized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for a ll licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans­ fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than 3 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, and tea. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A LI France and the other Operations Account countries of the F reach Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange alloca­ tion of an amount equivalent to MF 150,000 a person, wh ich may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to M a li must be sur­ rendered. F or business travel, there is a special alloca­ t ion of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 400,000 a t r ip .4 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner work ing in M a li is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in M a li banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries ( MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Travelers to other countries may take out MF 250,000 in M a li banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or up to MF 150,000 if no declaration was made. They may also take out MF 50,000 in M a li banknotes and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera­ tions Account country must be surrendered; export proceeds must normally be collected and repatriated within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports require ind iv idual licenses in order to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton from irrigated land, groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for S O M I EX or other state enterprises, but certain mixed enterprises may have a share allocated to them. Under the E X IC procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports except those cov­ ered by the monopoly of state trading companies and cotton exported by the Compagnie Franchise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles ( C FD T ), for pay­ ment for their own imports that are made through regu­ lar official channels. Balances on E X IC accounts and import rights under the E X IC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France and other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and 4 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to per­ sons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. 286 a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non­ resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Cen tral Bank of M a l i, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the F rench F ranc A r e a. Capital Cap i tal movements between M a l i, France, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls ( in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of M a li is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the F rench Territory of the Afars and the Issas) or to countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Under an Investment Code of M ay 23, 1969 and Law N o. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to foreign invest­ ments that would be of special interest to the M a l i an economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Econom ic P l an. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in M a li for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M i n i s­ try of Finance and Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1971 April 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugos lav ia was terminated. May 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Gu inea was terminated. September 9. A dual exchange market was established for transactions with countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. In the official market, the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained unchanged at MF 555.419 = US $ 1, and in the free market the M a li franc appreciated in terms of the U. S. dollar. The rate for the French ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A LI for a ll franc was maintained at MF 1 = F 0.01 transactions. September 9. The regulations concerning nonresident accounts were modified by C i rcu lar N o. 2. September 9. C i rcu lar N o. 3 established the pr inc ipal rules for the operation of the dual market. Transactions settled through the official exchange market were essen­ tially the following: imports and exports, incidental expenses on imports and exports, current payments made or received by the M a l i an state or public authori­ ties, and current payments made in favor of or received from foreign states or public authorities. A ll other trans­ actions with foreign countries had to be settled through the financial franc market. September 9. Exchange allocations were announced as follows: the equivalent of MF 500,000 for emigrants' transfers; MF 480,000 a year for family remittances; MF 150,000 for dowries; and MF 200,000 a year for maintenance of real estate abroad. October 11. An agreement was signed with Bulgaria providing for the termination of the bilateral payments agreement; w i th effect from January 1, 1972 settlements would be placed on a convertible currency basis. December 8. C i rcu lar N o. 5 provided that from December 10 Foreign Accounts in M a li francs could no longer be debited for purchases of foreign currency in either exchange market, nor for the acquisition of M a li francs against foreign currency on any exchange market in foreign countries. F r om December 14 the Minister of Finance and Commerce would be authorized to direct into blocked accounts any balances in excess of November 30 levels. Exempt from these provisions were the accounts of foreign states and public bodies, and the September 10 balances in accounts held by nonresident physical persons. December 21. The gold value of the M a li franc was maintained, as was the fixed relationship to the French franc of MF 1 = F 0.01. The effective parity relation­ ship for the U. S. dollar in the official market became US$1 = MF 511.570. The dual exchange market was maintained. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per M a l ta Pound. A central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per M a l ta pound has been established, and M a l ta avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Malta's basic rate for the pound sterling, the interven­ tion currency, on December 31, 1971 was <£ 102.625 buying, and <£ 102.375 selling, per <£M 100; the Central Bank observes limits for sterling of £ 1 0 4 . 8 0 6 25 buy­ ing, and £ 1 0 0 . 1 9 3 75 selling, per <£M 100. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is £ M1 = US$2.67086. Commercial bank rates for non-Sterling A r ea currencies are based on London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The banks' buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 were £M 0.3816 and £M 0.3825 per U S $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance and Cus­ toms, and for the Accountant Genera l; trade controls are administered by the D irec tor of Trade in the M i n­ istry of Trade, Industry, Agr icu l ture, and Tou r ism. Certain authorities to approve applications for the a l­ location of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency M a l ta is a member of the Sterling A r e a ,1 and set­ tlements between residents of M a l ta and residents of other Sterling A r ea countries are made in sterling or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Au thor ized pay­ ments to other countries may be made by crediting sterling or M a l ta pounds to an Ex ternal Account or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or M a l ta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency.2 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi­ dents of M a l ta and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea (except Hong Kong), but certain transfers from the former to the latter are subject to exchange control approval. Residents of countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea may maintain w i th authorized banks nonresident accounts in M a l ta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling A r e a, w i th transfers from other Ex ternal Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or 1 Malta's exchange control definition of the Sterling Area (the Scheduled Territories) includes Rhodesia and the Libyan Arab Republic. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all non-Sterling Area currencies. 288 non-Sterling A r ea currency (including banknotes), and with M a l ta or other Sterling A r ea banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling A r e a. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in M a l t a, and for purchases of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (including banknotes) or gold. B locked Accounts are maintained for nonresidents of M a l ta for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the-existing exchange control regulations may not be transferred outside M a l t a. The pr inc ipal type of funds that must be credited to a B locked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount of <£M 5,000 for each family that may be transferred to the new country of residence; the remaining funds are normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in M a l ta are prohibited. A ll imports from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, N o r th Ko rea, Po land, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, the U. S. S. R ., and No r th V i e t -N am, are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of some 75 items from any country of origin. Imports from countries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be freely imported under open general license. Payments for a ll authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescrip­ tion of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents are submitted to the intermediary bank. Advance payments for imports from outside the Sterling A rea require Central Bank approval. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments to other countries, whether inside or outside the Sterling A r e a, require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks for certain types of payment. Current payments to Sterling A r ea countries are in principle unrestricted. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea of the equivalent of £M 250 a person a year plus on application <£M 250 a person a tr ip; a business travel allowance of <£ M 250 or <£ M 20 a day (for up to 30 days a trip), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses outside the Sterling A r ea of <£M 2,000 a person for an academic year .3 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study pur­ poses, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or intend to continue so living for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied that there is no i l l ic it capital outflow involved. Profits, dividends, and interest for approved foreign investments may, with Central Bank permission, be transferred after payment of any charges and taxes due. L i fe insurance may not be contracted with insurers resident in non- Sterling A r ea countries. Maintenance remittances to beneficiaries outside the Sterling A r ea are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship; authorized banks may also approve moderate remittances to Sterling A r ea countries for family l iv ing expenses. Travelers may export M a l ta and sterling banknotes up to an aggregate of <£ M 25 for each person. Exports of other currencies may be made by resident travelers up to £ M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to <£M 100 for each person or up to the amount brought i n, whichever is higher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 56 items that may be exported freely, a ll other exports are sub­ ject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports received in non-Sterling A r ea currencies are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. There are no surrender requirements for proceeds received in Sterling A rea currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling A rea curren­ cies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; receipts in Sterling A r ea currencies need not be sur­ rendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Ma l ta and other currency notes. Capital Inward capital transfers from the Sterling A rea in excess of <£M 20,000 require exchange control ap­ proval. Otherwise, no control is exercised over capital receipts from other Sterling A r ea countries or from countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Receipts in non- Sterling A r ea currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, and payments of a capital nature in those currencies as well as certain payments in Sterling A rea currencies require^prior approval. Applications for direct investment outside the Sterling A r ea by residents of Ma l ta and for direct investment in M a l ta by non­ residents of the Sterling A rea are considered on their merits. The purchase of real estate in M a l ta by non- Sterling A r ea residents through a resident procurator requires exchange control approval but is normally not restricted. Purchases of a ll securities issued outside Ma l ta require prior permission from the authorities. However, permission is not normally granted for the acquisition of securities or the placing of funds outside M A L TA M a l t a. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside M a l ta require prior exchange control approval. Non-Sterling A r ea nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling A rea and Sterling A r ea nationals who repatriate to a territory of the Sterling A rea, normally are allowed to transfer a ll their sterling assets to their country; in certain circumstances, how­ ever, restrictions may be placed on sterling assets acquired, other than by way of income or capital appre­ ciation, while the person has been resident in M a l t a. Maltese who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling A r ea may transfer abroad up to <£M 5,000 for each family; any excess amount is normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend outside M a l ta only, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Residents other than authorized banks and registered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than coins or jewelry, at home or abroad. Residents may freely purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins minted in or before 1837, but Central Bank permission is required for the purchase, sale, or continued holding (except by those who held not more than four post-1837 coins on December 23, 1966) of any gold coins minted after 1837. Au thor ized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold coins for numis­ matic purposes from Sterling A r ea countries and v ir­ tually any other country. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bu l l ion, and manufactured or semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Au thor ized banks are permitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users, w i th in an annual quota that is divided among industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities; such permission is not normally granted, and the export of gold bullion is prohibited. G o ld bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1971 February 15. The Income Tax Exemption Order, 1971 exempted persons who are not residents of M a l ta within the meaning of the Income Tax A ct 1948 from the payment of income tax on interest received from any bank specifically licensed under the Banking A c t, 1970, to carry on the business of banking in M a l ta as a financial institution operating only with nonresidents. The purpose of the Order was to facilitate the establish­ ment in M a l ta of banking institutions which borrow and lend entirely outside the country. April 1. The agreement of association with the E EC came into force. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L TA April 30. The Central Bank raised from 45 per cent to 50 per cent the extent to which the m in imum pro­ portion of total specified (liquid) assets of commercial banks was required to be maintained locally. July 22. The Central Bank requested the commercial banks to cooperate with the exchange control authori­ ties in ensuring that payments in respect of current transactions were of a genuine nature. July 26. Documentary evidence had to be produced to authorized banks before payments in respect of imports could be made to residents of other parts of the Sterling A r e a. August 20. The authority granted to authorized deal­ ers to deal in foreign currencies was temporarily limited to (1) the implementation of their contracts expressed in foreign currency and entered into prior to August 20; (2) accepting and depositing foreign currencies; and (3) attending, at their discretion, to the normal needs of travelers. The relevant ministerial directive was with­ drawn on August 24. August 20. The Central Bank maintained its basic rate for sterling unchanged at , £ 1 0 0% buying, and £ 9 97/8 selling, per £M 100. August 21. A ll transactions in U. S. dollars by author­ ized dealers were suspended. The suspension was lifted on August 24. August 24. Parliament approved an amendment to the Central Bank of M a l ta A ct empowering the authori­ ties to allow the M a l ta pound to move beyond 1 per cent either side of its parity with other currencies. August 24. The existing exchange controls over capi­ tal movements were extended also to inward move­ ments; previously, no control was exercised over capital receipts from other Sterling A r ea countries. August 25. The M a l ta pound began to appreciate in terms of sterling (as we ll as in terms of the U. S. dollar). The Cen tral Bank's spot rates for sterling at the opening of business were calculated on the basis of a 5 per cent premium over sterling, at £M 100 = £ stg. 1051// 8-<£ stg. 104%. The rates were subject to change each morning, and possibly during the day. At the end of the week the M a l ta pound had risen to 7 per cent above its declared parity. August 26. Inward capital transfers from Sterling A r ea countries up to <£M 20,000 per transaction were exempted from the exchange control limitations im­ posed on August 24. September 1. The administration of exchange control was transferred from the Treasury to the Central Bank. The Exchange Con t rol (Agency Appointment) Order, 1971, appointed the Central Bank as agent for the M in is ter of Finance and Customs and for the Accoun t­ ant General for the purpose of most provisions of the Exchange Con t rol Ordinance, 1959. September 11. The Central Bank of M a l ta returned to fixed sterling quotations. These were based on a middle rate of <£M 100 = <£ stg. 102.50. December 20. The commercial banks' foreign cur­ rency transactions (other than to attend travelers' needs) were suspended. They were resumed on December 21. December 26 (December 27, Malta time). A central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per M a l ta pound was established. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became <£M 1 - U S $ 2 . 6 7 0 8 6. M a l ta availed itself of wider margins. The outer intervention points were set at £M 95.3659 buying, and £M 99.7561 selling, per <£ stg. 100, or £ stg. 104 .80625- £ stg. 100.19375 per £M 100. 2 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Mau r i tan ia has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A rea, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the finan­ cial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, M a u r i­ tania's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and T e r r i­ tories (except the French Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the,French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i­ can Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Maur i tan ia itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub­ ject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Maur i tan ia, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the solicitation of funds in 11 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Mau r i tan ia for placement in foreign countries. Most of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the B C E AO and to authorized intermediaries. The B C E AO also is authorized to co l­ lect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Depart­ ment in the M in is t ry of Commerce, which also issues import certificates for liberalized commodities and export certificates. The Na t ional Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles and over exports of gum arabic. Prescription of Currency Maur i tan ia is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea are made in C FA francs, F rench francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements with Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Nouakchott by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israel, Portuguese, and South A f r i c an origin and /or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. W i th these exceptions, imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea and from E EC countries other than France are free of license and quantitative restrictions. Most imports from other countries are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. There are three 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A U R I T A N IA liberalization lists, applicable respectively to the former O E EC area, to the Un i ted States and Canada, and to a ll countries outside the French Franc A r e a. F or goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. On ly holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import trans­ actions. SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 20,000. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi­ ties have already been imported. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the B C E A O. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the B C E AO and, for certain specified payments and subject to conditions la id down in circulars, to author­ ized intermediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac­ tion has been approved or does not require authoriza­ tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip ( C F AF 87,500 for children under ten); any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to Maur i tan ia must be surrendered. F or business travel, an exceptional additional allocation may be granted only w i th special authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Maur i tan ia is permitted upon pres­ entation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i o n, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident 292 travelers may freely take out up to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000 in foreign banknotes if they had not declared these upon entry, or any amount they had d e c l a r ed ;2 and any amount of travelers checks and letters of credit issued in their name in a foreign coun­ try. They may also take out, subject to the production of documentary evidence, any amount in foreign means of payment that they acquired in Mau r i tan ia to the debit of a F inanc ial Account in Francs or by conversion of other foreign means of payment, and any amount of foreign banknotes declared upon entry or acquired in exchange for other means of payment in Mau r i tan ia. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. On ly holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to a ll foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000. Exports to countries outside the F rench F ranc A r ea require an export license or an export attes­ tation. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; before the surrender period expires, however, the exporter may use this foreign exchange, under the supervision of an authorized bank, in settlement of import payments and related expenses that have fallen due. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of serv­ ices and a ll income earned in those countries from for­ eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera­ tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the F rench F ranc A r e a, but residents must within eight days of re-entry surrender any foreign currency in excess of C F AF 5,000. Capital Transfers of capital between Mau r i tan ia and Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Mau r i tan ia and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are free of exchange con tro l; capital trans­ fers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. 3 Adjusted for any documented exchange for C FA francs, and for any amounts purchased in Mauritania by debit to a Financial Account in Francs or a nonresident account in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, over the issuing, advertis­ ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in M a u r i­ tania, and over the solicitation of funds in Maur i tan ia for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Maur i tan ia and the soliciting of funds in Maur i tan ia, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i­ tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i o n, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. A ll investments abroad by residents of Maur i tan ia require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Foreign direct investments in Mau r i tan ia 3 and M a u r i- tanian direct investments abroad,4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires declaration. Bo th the making and the l i q­ uidation of investments, whether these are Maur i tan ian investments abroad or foreign investments in M a u r i­ tania, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. D irect invest­ ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con­ sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Maur i tan ia requires prior authoriza­ tion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authori­ zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Maur i tan ian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Maur i tan ia has previously been authorized. Borrow ing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transac­ tions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports ? Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauri­ tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa­ nies in Mauritania. M A U R I T A N IA into or exports from Maur i tan ia, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest­ ment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authoriza­ tion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The Investment Code (Law N o. 71.028 of February 2, 1971) provides for various benefits for private invest­ ments in Maur i tan ia. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori­ zation by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treas­ ury or the B C E A O, (2) imports and exports of manu­ factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. February Changes during 1971 2. L aw N o. 71.028 introduced a new Investment Code and revoked Law N o. 61.122 of June 26, 1961. April 28. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 75,000 a trip for two trips a year to C F AF 100,000 a trip for two trips a year. August 16. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. September 1. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Mau r i tan ia. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A U R I T A N IA banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 1. W i th minor exceptions, the payment of interest on nonresident franc accounts was prohibited. (This measure was revoked on January 3, 1972.) September 6. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of C F AF 175,000 a trip, with no l im it on the annual number of trips. December 9. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Fore ign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accoun ts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on December 22.) December 24. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Mau r i t ian Rupee has been estab­ lished w i th the F u n d. The central rate is Rs 5.55555 = SDR 1 and the official rate for sterling, the intervention currency, is Re 1 = . £ 0 . 0 7 5. The corresponding effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is Re 1 = US$0.195429. The currency issuing authority is the Bank of Mau r i t ius. Its rates for sterling are Rs 13.36% selling and Rs 13.31% buying per £ stg. 1. Commerc ial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Maur i t ius and in other foreign currencies 1 at rates based on the London market rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on December 31, 1971, were Rs 13.25 buying and Rs 13.40 selling per £ stg. 1 and for the U . S. dollar the rates were Rs 5.19 buying and Rs 5.25 sell­ ing (for transactions in excess of US$12,000). A differ­ ent effective rate results from the application of a stamp duty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital trans­ fers other than transfers of banking funds and to pay­ ments for gold coins and gold bu l l ion. Cer ta in capital transfers to non-Sterling A r ea countries are channeled through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the F inanc ial Secretary. The authority for approving practically a ll current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Maur i t ius is a member of the Sterling A r ea but settle­ ments with Sterling A r ea countries are subject to exchange control. Payments to residents of other Ster­ l ing A r ea countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling A r ea Account in Maur i t ius or in any Sterling A r ea cur­ rency. Payments from residents of the Sterling A r ea may be received in rupees from a Sterling A r ea Account in Maur i t ius or in any currency of the Sterling A r e a. Pay­ ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea may be made in rupees to a Sterling A r ea Account or an Ex ternal Account in Maur i t ius, in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian cur­ rency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea may be received in rupees from an Exter­ nal Account in Maur i t ius, in sterling from an Ex ternal Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in other countries of the Sterling A r e a, may be credited with (1) authorized pay­ ments by residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) any transfers from other Sterling A r ea Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling A r e a; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of M a u r i­ tius. They may be debited for (1) payments from resi­ dents of the Sterling A r ea to residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling A r ea Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling A r ea in respect of wh ich the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate Sterling A r ea country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling A r ea currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Maur i t ius and the Sterling A r e a. They may be credited w i th (1) authorized pay­ ments by residents of Maur i t ius; (2) payments from Sterling A r ea Accounts in respect of which the permis­ sion of the exchange control authorities of the appropri­ ate Sterling A r ea country has been given; (3) any trans­ fers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Maur i t ius and the Sterling A r e a. They may be debited for (1) any payments to resi­ dents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers to Sterling A r ea Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from invest­ ments made by them prior to A p r il 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited with pay­ ments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifi­ cally authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Maur i t ius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Accoun t. Imports and Import Payments 1T he exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur­ rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAUR I T IUS M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry is required regard­ less of origin. A ll other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to ind iv idual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling A r e a, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling A r ea countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries w i th it exchange control authority to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance with the pre­ scription of currency regulations. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control author­ ities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equivalent of £ 2 50 a person a year for travel to any country in the wo r ld except Rhodesia. The allow­ ance for business travel purposes is the equivalent of <£250 a trip or £ 20 a day up to a maximum of £ 1 , 0 00 a trip for travel to countries of the Sterling A r e a, or up to a total of £ 7 50 a trip for travel to countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Maur i t ius when exceeding the equivalent of £ 2 50 a person a trip. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling A r ea countries and to non-Sterling A r ea countries in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Maur i t ian nationals, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Maur i t ius, royal­ ties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A l so prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the F inanc ial Secre­ tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. A ll exports valued at more than Rs 1,000 and a ll exports of food valued at over Rs 50 require a license from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry. The Maur i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 6 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. A ll export proceeds in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be 296 given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet pay­ ments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an author­ ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported but not more than Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out­ ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric­ tions. Nonbank residents of Maur i t ius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling A r ea on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp duty (a duty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to non-Sterling A r ea countries on payment of the stamp duty, provided normally that the transfer is made through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp duty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea by a resident of the Sterling A r e a, must normally be made through the investment currency market. Transfers of capital after payment of stamp duty by residents of non-Sterling A r ea countries need not be channeled through this market. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for the repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before A p r il 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or after that date. Proceeds from the sale, l iqu ida­ tion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to B locked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Rs 67,000 from their Mau r i t ian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a. B locked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Maur i t ius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold only in the form of numismatic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAUR I T IUS c o i ns ( i n c l u d i ng a c omm em o r a t i ve g o ld c o in of Rs 2 00 i s sued by M a u r i t i us in 1 9 7 1) or p e r s o n al j ew e l ry a nd o rn am en t s. T he im p o rt a nd e x p o rt of m o n e t a ry g o ld are p r o h i b i t e d, except w h en m a de by the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s. Im p o r ts of g o ld f or i n d u s t r i al pu rpo ses are subject to a q u o ta a nd spec i f ic im p o rt l i c en s e. E x p o r ts of a r t i c l es m ade w h o l ly or p a r t i a l ly of g o l d, o t h er t h an j ew e l ry c o n s t i t u t i ng the p e r s o n al effects of a t r av e l e r, are p r o h i b i t e d. P a ym e n ts in respect of p r i v a te im p o r ts of g o ld c o i ns a nd g o ld b u l l i on are sub ject to the 3 5 . 70 p er c ent s tamp d u t y. Changes during 1971 July. G o v e r nm e nt N o t i ce N o. 61 a d d ed m i l l ed or u n m i l l ed c o rn to the l i st of goods f or w h i ch an im p o rt l icen se is r e q u i r ed i r r e sp e c t ive of o r i g i n. August 15. T he M a u r i t i an rup ee r em a i n ed pegged to s t e r l i ng at Re 1 = <£ s tg. 0 . 0 7 5. T he B a nk of M a u r i t i u s' o f f ic ial b u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates f or s t e r l i ng w e re m a i n­ t a i n ed at Rs 1 3 . 3 1% a nd Rs 13 .36%. As a re su l t, the M a u r i t i an rupee began to app r e c i a te in te rms of the U. S. d o l l a r, the o f f i c i al ra te f or w h i ch p r e v i o u s ly was Re 1 = U S $ 0 . 18 or U S $1 = Rs 5 . 5 5 5 5 5. October. A g o ld c o in of Rs 2 00 was i s sued f or c o m­ m em o r a t i ve pu rpo se s. December 28. A c e n t r al ra te of Rs 5 .55555 p er S DR 1 was e s t ab l i sh ed. M a u r i t i us a lso w o u ld a v a il i t s e lf of w i d er m a r g i n s. T he p a r i ty f or s t e r l i ng w as m a i n t a i n ed at Re 1 = «£ s tg. 0 . 0 7 5. T he effective p a r i ty r e l a t i o n­ sh ip f or the U. S. d o l l ar b e c ame Re 1 = U S $ 0 . 1 9 5 4 2 9. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mex ican Peso. The central rate is Mex$ 12.50 = U S $ 1. The official rates for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, are Mex$ 12.49 buying, and Mex$ 12.51 selling, per U S $ 1. Banks may freely engage in exchange transactions between the peso and the U. S. dollar, between other currencies and the U. S. dollar, and, through the U. S. dollar, between currencies other than the U. S. dollar. There are limited forward facilities for Mex ican pesos. On November 12, 1946, Mex ico notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Hungary, Poland, and Yugoslavia, payments for transactions with those coun­ tries handled through the Mex ican banking system are recorded by the Bank of Mex ico through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Payments between Mex ico and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mex ico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. Payments to Costa R i c a, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mex ican pesos or Central Amer ican currencies through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clear­ inghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. A ll imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. F or a considerable number of items, import licenses from the M in is t ry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses may be subject to quantitative restriction, but most of the items concerned do not require an import license when they originate in L A F TA countries. F or specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited importation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the import­ er's performance, repeated renewal of the license is pos­ sible. Applications for import licenses are screened by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Trade w i th the aid of com­ mittees composed of importers, producers, and consum­ 298 ers. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic bever­ ages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an overall annual l im i t. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the M in i s t ry of Industry and Trade are required (unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and television sets, and whiskey, wines, and other liquors) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and \V> per cent of the value of the import transaction, the proceeds of which are allocated to a fund handled by the Mex ican Foreign Trade Institute ( I M C E) for the promotion of exports. Imports by official Mex ican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Mex ican Foreign Trade Institute; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is avail­ able, a price differential of 15 per cent being con­ sidered acceptable. M any nonessential imports are sub­ ject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con­ tracting of insurance for persons in M ex i co, or on prop­ erty of Mex ican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mex ico or may occur in Mex ico, is permitted with Mex ican companies or w i th branches of foreign companies established in Mex ico in accordance with Mex ican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Tax remission is granted on exports of cotton and certain manufactured products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment, other than by private ind iv idu­ als, in Mex ican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Borrowing abroad (or within Mex ico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and Pub l ic Credit. Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to licensing by the Bank of M ex i co. Gold Domestic transactions in gold coins by banks have been suspended, and domestic transactions in nonmone­ tary gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers. W i th these excep­ tions, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mex ico or abroad. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold to any buyer other than the Bank of M ex i co; private banks reselling such gold to licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers in M ex i co are exempt from this tax. The Bank, however, does not buy or sell gold in transactions with private individuals or firms. Producers of gold undertaking not to sell it at prices exceeding interna­ tional quotations plus normal operating costs are eligible for a subsidy corresponding to the fu ll 15 per cent tax when selling newly mined gold in M ex i co. Exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by the Bank of M ex i co. Imports of gold are permitted when licensed by the Bank of Mex ico and are free of customs duty. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year a number of commodities were added to those requiring an import license. January 1. The Mex ican Fore ign Trade Institute took over the tasks previously performed by the Committee of Pub l ic Sector Imports as we ll as the operation of the compensation system previously carried out by the Na t ional Foreign Trade Bank. The compensation sys­ tem subsequently was revised so that importers no longer had to guarantee that they would undertake exports equal in value to permitted imports. March 17. Expor t ing manufacturers became entitled to improved fiscal and other export incentives. April 30. A Presidential Decree was promulgated set­ ting forth new guidelines on the establishment of foreign-owned industries and hotels w i th in fixed limits from the land borders or coastlines. M E X I CO July 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. August 16. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at Mex$ 12.50 = U S $ 1. The Bank of Mex ico reduced its selling rate from Mex$ 12.51 to Mex$ 12.49%. Transactions in currencies other than the U. S. dollar were suspended. Domestic transactions in gold coins by banks also were suspended. August 18. The Bank of Mex ico announced that exchange transactions between the Mex ican peso and the U. S. dollar could continue to be effected as usual, but that until further notice transactions in other foreign currencies could be effected only between these curren­ cies or against the U. S. dollar, and not directly against pesos. The U. S. dollar continued to be the intervention currency. Banks' domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold were confined to purchases of gold by licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers for use as raw material. September 22. A fiscal export incentive was announced for the iron and steel industry, to counteract the impact of the U. S. import surcharge of August 15. October 19. The 25 per cent ad valorem export tax on refined silver was suspended. December 4. In order to facilitate the currency trans­ actions of tourists visiting Mex ico, banks were author­ ized to purchase, directly against Mex ican pesos, foreign currency and travelers checks denominated in curren­ cies other than the U. S. dollar. December 22. A central rate of Mex$12 .50 = US$1 was established. Mex ico d id not avail itself of wider margins. December 29. A directive was issued allowing deposit banks to resume dealings in gold coins with effect from January 3, 1972. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency MOROCCO The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan D i rham. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is DH 4.66097 = US $ 1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French commercial franc is fixed at DH 1 = F 1.09755 or DH 0.9111 = F 1; the Bank of Mo rocco quotes daily buying and selling rates for the French financial franc. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it negotiates 1 are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Mo rocco for the U. S. dollar on Decem­ ber 31, 1971 were DH 4.7519 buying, and DH 4.7681 selling, per US $ 1. A ll sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen­ tralized in the Bank of Mo rocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (offset) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must pur­ chase from or sell to the Bank of Mo rocco each day, at the rates communicated to them by the Bank, the balances of their purchases and sales in each cur­ rency; compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Mo rocco. The Bank of Mo rocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency mostly in the Paris exchange markets but sometimes in other markets. The Bank of Mo rocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, C FA francs, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Mo rocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Fo rwa rd exchange transactions are not per­ mitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the M in is t ry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of C om­ merce; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 300 Morocco's regulations still make a distinction between the F rench F ranc A r ea and the so-called area of con­ vertibility, but Mo rocco does apply exchange controls also to transactions with the former.2 F or prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the F rench Franc A r ea countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries w i th wh ich Mo ro c co maintains bilateral payments agreements; 3 and (3) a ll other countries, the so-called area of converti­ b i l i ty. Settlements with the French Franc A r ea are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc A r ea Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be­ l ow ); certain settlements with A lge r ia, however, are made through special accounts in dirhams and dinars at the two central banks. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreements accounts established for this pur­ pose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Mo rocco (see footnote 1 ). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible cur­ rencies" negotiated by the Bank of Mo rocco or through Fore ign Accounts in Convertible D irhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Mo roccan currency by residents of other countries of the F rench F ranc A r e a. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the F rench F ranc A r e a, except for the payment for imports from those countries. They may be freely credited w i th and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except bank­ notes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Mo ro c co. Transfers between F rench F ranc A r ea Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports of related invisibles) and w i th dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Mo rocco of "converti­ ble currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. - Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. :| Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger­ many, Egypt, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, and U. S. S. R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution They may be debited freely for payments in Mo rocco and for purchases from the Bank of Mo rocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, inc lud ing bank­ notes. Transfers between Fore ign Accounts in Conver t i­ ble D irhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Mo rocco for central banks (or similar institu­ tions) of the countries w i th wh ich Mo rocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, wh ich may be held by any non­ resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans­ ferred abroad. Transfers between Cap i tal Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French F ranc A rea) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited without prior approval for purchases of Mo roccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to capital increases of Mo roccan com­ panies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions at the time of issue to long- term or short-term securities with a fixed y ie ld issued by a public Mo roccan entity; for custody charges and commissions on securities; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Mo ro c co. Cap i tal Accounts may also be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent, ten-year government bonds; interest and redemp­ tion proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. A ll other operations through Cap i tal Accounts require individual approval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Mo roccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of participation in a Mo roccan f irm; subscriptions to either; investments of any k ind, including purchases of busi­ nesses or business buildings; lending to residents; pay­ ment of local expenses during the holder's stay in Mo rocco; and gifts to social, cultural, or religious in­ stitutions. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi­ dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Mo roccan authorities, but a ll other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. A Foreign Account in Convertible Dirhams is held by the Bank of Mo rocco for the Central Bank of A lge r ia. Specified transactions between the two countries are settled through this account. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to a ll countries. Goods in L i st A are liberal­ M O R O C CO ized. Goods in L ist B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of L ist B items, no quota is fixed and imports are approved according to need (SB items). In pr inc i­ ple, the importation of goods in L ist C is not permitted. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c. i. f. basis,4 but for goods in L i st B, an import license (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. F or a ll imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import cer­ tificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import com­ mitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods con­ cerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c. i. f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled w i th in a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports of French origin that are financed by French aid and to certain U. S. aid imports. Most imports from countries in the payments agree­ ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the neces­ sary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The author­ ized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction cov­ ered by the relevant import or export documents. Ea rn­ ings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Mo ro c co are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Mo roccan companies having their main office in Mo rocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; the transfer of other d iv i­ dends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Undistributed transferable profits remain transferable. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of 4 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M O R O C CO his monthly wages or salary if his family does not reside in Mo rocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Mo rocco. The same percentages of their monthly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a l im it of DH 12,000 a year .5 Subject to a monthly l im it of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by for­ eign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. An alloca­ tion of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make peri­ odic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own for­ eign assets not subject to surrender requirements. Fo r­ eign employees of the Mo roccan Government and of public agencies or institutions, teachers of foreign nationality employed by the M in is t ry of Na t ional Educa­ tion, and experts holding contracts w i th in the framework of the technical cooperation agreements w i th France may obtain a complementary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. F or business travel by persons other than exporters a stand­ ard allowance of DH 150 a day is granted; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a limit of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. F or study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500-700 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Mo rocco. For family maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Mo ro c­ can banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. A ll fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d 'Expo r t a t ion —OCE ). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. A ll exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month from the date 5 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, monthly trans­ fers which exceed by more than DH 100 the amount transferred in June 1971 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. 302 the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial con­ tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arr ival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Mo ro c co. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from a ll their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions, and only when they accrue in for­ eign currencies other than those of the F rench F ranc A rea. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is pro­ hibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely for­ eign banknotes, which need not be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 15 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Mo roccan nationality, as we ll as com­ panies established in Mo rocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office a ll foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange allocations for the transfer of dowries and inheritances are limited to DH 35,000. Those for the transfer of their assets by repatriates vary w i th the length of their stay in Mo rocco, from DH 35,000 a family with previous residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 100,000 a family where the period of residence has been 15 to 25 years. Foreign investments in Mo rocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance w i th measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; a ll new investments that have been approved by, and registered with, the Exchange Office are automatically granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable either between all nonresidents ( if the investment has been financed with convertible cur­ rencies) or between nonresidents resident in the same country or currency area ( if the investment has been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to C ap i­ tal Accounts. Cer ta in government bonds acquired w i th funds from Cap i tal Accoun ts are freely negotiable between non­ residents. A ll other transactions in securities invo lv ing nonresident interests, as we ll as the import and export of securities, require approval. Gold Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Mo rocco for numismatic or investment purposes. T en different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, wh ich does not, however, deal in gold bars or ingots. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Warranty Office in the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, wh ich derives its approval authority from the M in is ter of Finance. Every year the M in is ter of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, wh ich is then allocated among jewelers and other users. G o ld in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import duty and import taxes. Changes during 1971 January 1. Some further liberalization of imports took place. Shortly thereafter, the protective quotas were abolished wh ich had existed for imports from any source of certain goods in L i st B. April 23. Foreign tourists were no longer required to declare the foreign exchange brought i n, and the fac i l i­ ties for reconversion on departure of dirhams were improved. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement w i th Spain was terminated. The Spanish peseta was listed as a "convertible currency." M O R O C CO July 6. Subject to a monthly l im it of DH 300, resi­ dents of foreign nationality engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities or in skilled crafts were henceforth permitted to transfer abroad the same percentage of their monthly earnings as already author­ ized for foreign nationals in salaried or professional employment; previously, they were not permitted to transfer savings. July 6. The amount up to which exchange could be allocated to repatriates, previously DH 35,000 a family, was increased. The new limits ranged from DH 35,000 a family where the period of residence had been from 3 to 5 years, to DH 100,000 where the period of resi­ dence had been from 15 to 25 years. F or those who had been in residence for over 25 years, amounts in excess of DH 100,000 could be authorized by the M in is ter of Finance. As previously, amounts in excess of those approved for transfer were required to be placed in Cap i tal Accounts. August 24. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar was maintained at DH 5.06049 = U S $ 1. The fixed exchange rate for the French franc was main­ tained, for the commercial franc, at DH 0.9111 = F 1; the central bank henceforth provided daily quotations for the F rench financial franc. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became DH 4.66097 = US $ 1. Mo rocco availed itself of wider margins. The fixed exchange rate for the F rench commercial franc remained at DH 0.9111 = F 1. December 28. Moroccans working abroad no longer were required to declare on return the amount of foreign exchange they were bringing in. They remained obliged to sell such foreign currency w i th in one month of re-entry. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E P AL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.087770 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is N Rs 10.1250 = U S $ 1. The Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) maintains fixed buying and selling rates as follows: N Rs 10.10-10.20 per U S $ 1; N Rs 139.00-139.15 per 100 Indian rupees; N Rs 26.00-26.50 per pound sterling; N Rs 311.00-316.00 per 100 deutsche mark; and yen 3,010.00-3,070.00 per 100 Nepalese rupees. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of repre­ sentatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank and the M i n i s­ tries of Finance, Foreign Affairs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions with the clearing countries. Per­ mission is required from the M in is t ry of Finance for a ll foreign payments, except payments for certain specified invisibles that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. A ll exchange trans­ actions w i th countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank L t d. and the Rastriya Van i jya Bank. W i th in Nepal there are 33 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the pr ior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Certain import and export trans­ actions, mainly with payments agreement countries, are conducted through a state trading agency, the Na t ional Trad ing L t d. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Pakistan, and Po land; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepa­ 304 lese banks, the balances of wh ich may be freely trans­ ferred abroad. Fore ign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, wh ich are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited w i th a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the coun­ try, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of goods except those originating in India (other than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and most tobacco products) or the Tibet region require import licenses from the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable o i l, margarine, animal fat, beef, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of August 13, 1971, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods could be imported freely, and imports of a ll commodities subject to excise duty in India benefited from reimbursement of tax by the Gov­ ernment of India to the Government of Nepa l. W i th the exception noted below, applications to the M in i s t ry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; and application must, however, be in accordance w i th the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, w i th in the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Expo rt Proceeds, be low ). Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. F or travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equiva­ lent of US$1 ,000 at a time; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1 ,500 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transac­ tion and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is pro­ hibited. Fore ign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any foreign banknotes they brought i n; however, non­ residents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of o ld coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rh i­ noceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-exports to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. A ll other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, w i th in six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro­ portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the M in i s t ry of Industry and C om­ merce. A l though entitlements formally are nontrans­ ferable, transfers do take place indirectly through the advance sale of goods to be imported under this system. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade, i.e., those selling to countries with wh ich Nepal maintains payments agreements, are granted entitlements corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earnings; 40 per cent may be used for imports of their choice from the partner country concerned and the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the part­ ner country concerned. When exports are made to con­ vertible currency countries, exchange entitlements are granted as follows: 20 per cent for raw jute; 40 per cent for musk, bristles, and human hair; 50 per cent for hessian; 70 per cent for timber; 80 per cent for rice and wooden or bamboo goods; 90 per cent for straw board, stainless steel goods, and synthetic clothes; and 60 per cent for specified other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an author­ ized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank­ notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents must declare any foreign banknotes they bring i n. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but offi­ c ial exchange is not normally provided for capital remit­ N E P AL tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except invest­ ment specifically exempted by government notice pub­ lished in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institu­ tion incorporated in Nepa l, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Fore ign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the p r inc ipa l; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$50,000 or more may be wholly owned by nonresi­ dents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form in Nepa l. Imports for industrial and handicraft use from India, at Indian gold prices, are free. No import licenses for gold are issued under the exporters' exchange entitlement scheme. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are sub­ ject to an import duty of N Rs 53.20 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require pr ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to sales tax of 9 per cent. Changes during 1971 January 2. The list of commodities that industries may import against exporters' exchange entitlements was revised by the deletion of a number of items. January 13. Imports from and exports to India were made subject to licensing under the Expo r t / Impo rt C o n­ trol A ct of 1957, w i th minor exceptions for certain border trade and travelers' personal effects. These import and export licensing requirements were lifted on August 15, 1971. May 4. Imports of metallic yarn and polyester fiber were prohibited. May 24. Exporters were required to take up their exporters' exchange entitlements at the Nepal Rastra Bank within three months of receipt of export proceeds, and to utilize the entitlements w i th in 12 months of issuance. July 17. The list of export entitlement ratios was modi­ fied with a view to clarifying the classification of com­ modities. There were no major changes in ratios. August 15. A new Treaty on Trade and Transit between Nepal and India, signed on August 13, came into force, replacing that of September 11, 1960, which had expired on November 1, 1970. August 16. The Nepal Rastra Bank maintained its 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E P AL previous buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar (NRs 10.10 and N Rs 10.20) and for the Indian rupee (NRs 135.00 and N Rs 135.15 per 100 Indian rupees). Exchange rates for the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen also remained unchanged at the pre-August 15 levels. August 16. Exporters' exchange entitlement ratios were adjusted to compensate for the loss incurred when surrendering an appreciated foreign currency at the unchanged official rate. Exchange entitlements hence­ forth were granted in the currencies in which export proceeds were obtained and surrendered. These arrange­ ments were terminated after the exchange rate adjust­ ment of December 22, 1971. August 16. Sales of foreign currency by the Nepal Rastra Bank for invisibles were restricted to U. S. do l­ lars and sterling. October 30. The rates for sterling, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, and Japanese yen were allowed to fluctuate and appreciate. The existing rates for the U. S. dollar and the Indian rupee were maintained. November 22. Exporters' exchange entitlement ratios for jute were reduced as follows: for raw jute from 30 per cent to 20 per cent; for hessian from 60 per cent to 50 per cent; for gunny bags from 70 per cent to 50 per cent; and for cuttings, waste, and caddies from 90 per cent to 60 per cent. December 19. Exchange transactions were suspended. December 22. Exchange transactions were resumed. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained N Rs 10.1250 = U S $ 1. The following new fixed exchange rates were established; ,£ stg. 1 = N Rs 26.38; DM 100 = N Rs 314.15; 100 Indian rupees = N Rs 139.10; and N Rs 100 = 3,042.00 Japanese yen. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Exchange Control Territory NETHERLANDS * The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Gu i lde r. The Netherlands has established a central rate of f. 3.2447 = US$1 and avails itself of wider margins, except in respect of the Belgian franc and, by implication, the Luxembourg franc. The official limits are f. 3.17;K(> buying, and f. 3.31% selling, per US $ 1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. The exchange rates for the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc are maintained within margins of W> per cent either side of the cross-parity of f. 1 = B F / L ux F 13.812 or B F / L ux F 100 = f. 7.24. Market rates for other cur­ rencies vary between limits that result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.1 Au tho r ized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks; nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on applica­ tion are permitted to ho ld such accounts (normally demand deposits on ly) in their own names with banks abroad. The guilder proceeds from the sale by nonresidents to residents of officially listed guilder bonds (O-guilders see section on Cap i ta l, below) are traded in a spot mar­ ket at free rates. On December 31, 1971, the rate for the O-guilder was about f. 101 per 100 O-guilders. The K ingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. * With effect from April 24, 1972, the Netherlands Bank, in accord­ ance with EEC action to narrow exchange rate margins, established buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the French franc, and the Italian lira, and changed those for the Belgian franc to f. 7.079 and f. 7.405, respectively, per 100 Belgian francs. The Benelux inter­ vention arrangement was suspended until further notice. On April 26, this arrangement was continued, with the Netherlands Bank's inter­ vention rates for the Belgian franc at f. 7.1320 and f. 7.3490 per 100 Belgian francs. 1 The currencies quoted in the Amsterdam market are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. A l l transactions with the Netherlands An t i l les and Surinam are subject to exchange control, although they are generally permitted freely. Vis-a-vis any th ird coun­ tries with wh ich payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands An t i l les, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary A r e a. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Econom ic Affairs, and Agr icu l ture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- Expo rt Agency ( C D I U) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Econom ic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the C D I U .2 A ll commercial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held w i th an authorized bank in the Nether­ lands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. There are special regulations, however, for settlements with nonresidents in respect of officially listed guilder bonds (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). A ll foreign countries are included in the "converti­ ble guilder area." Payments to countries in the converti­ ble guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible currencies (see foot­ note 1 ), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Gu i lder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited with the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Nether­ lands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary w i th an author­ ized bank in the Netherlands. 2 Merchanting transactions involving Rhodesia are prohibited. Most other transactions are freely permitted by virtue of general licenses granted to registered transit traders. The only merchanting transac­ tions still subject to a specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the E EC, of scrap. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 3 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, w i th proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur­ rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other non­ resident account except O-Gu i lder Accounts. 2. O-Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident and by those authorized banks and stockbrokers that have been designated authorized depositories. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) the guilder proceeds from the sale of officially listed guilder bonds by nonresidents to residents, and (2) amounts transferred from other O -Gu i lder Accounts. They may be freely debited for (1) purchases of offi­ c ia l ly listed guilder bonds by nonresidents from residents, (2) amounts transferred to other O-Gu i lder Accounts, and (3) transfers to Convertible Gu i lder Accounts. Holders of O-guilders may freely sell these to other nonresidents or to resident banks and stockbrokers, for foreign currency or convertible guilders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for many textiles unless they are imported from the Belgian-Luxembourg Econom ic U n i on and do not originate in Hong K o n g, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to these, import licenses are required only for imports from Hong K o n g, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of products mainly from the agricultural sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically a ll imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized, although still subject to license. Some 19 commodities are subject to quantitative restric­ tion when originating in Japan. Imports from n o n -EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Po l icy of the E EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced a ll previous barriers to imports; common E EC regula­ tions are also applied to imports from n o n -EEC coun­ tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Certain agricultural imports of non-Benelux E EC origin 3 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. 308 or originating in third countries are subject to compensa­ tory levies. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities.4 Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resi­ dent traveling abroad may in addition have any further amounts remitted to h im through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, d i v i­ dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate non­ resident account. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by resi­ dent travelers is not subject to l im i ta t ion. Nonresidents may export a ll unutilized negotiable instruments and for­ eign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other curren­ cies. The export of Netherlands silver coins by travelers is limited to f. 25 a person a t r ip; this l im it is not appli­ cable to 10-guilder coins. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; a ll other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. F or exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a number of commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities (see footnote 4 ). The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obliga­ tory. A license may be obtained to ho ld a foreign cur­ rency account with a bank abroad, to wh ich account export proceeds may be credited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected through an authorized bank but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to wh ich account proceeds from invisibles may be credited. F or incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 derived from current inv is i­ bles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as we ll as the amount and currency received. 4 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands un­ limited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign bank­ notes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tour­ ist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took w i th them on their outward journey; there is no l im i ta t ion on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring i n. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign-owned capital w i th in the Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses have been granted for most types of capital transaction. Bo r row ing and lending abroad by bank and nonbank residents (with the exception of specified bank­ ing operations and of credit in respect of imports or exports of commodities) are restricted for reasons of capital market po l icy and, as far as borrowing is con­ cerned, either to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities or for reasons of monetary and reserve po l icy; apart from guilder issues on the Nether­ lands capital market (see be low ), most lending to nonresidents is liberally permitted. Borrow ing from non­ resident banks by private industry and other nonbank residents is not normally permitted, and loans from other nonresident sources (except suppliers' credits) are subject to ind iv idual approval; licenses for borrowing abroad from nonbank nonresidents are granted on appli­ cation, provided that the funds are used for direct invest­ ment abroad or for lending to nonresidents. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents from nonresidents, provided that a resident in any calendar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 from the same nonresident. A similar license has been issued for lending to nonresidents. Furthermore, a gen­ eral license permits authorized banks to grant loans for up to 12 months to nonbank nonresidents and for any period to nonresident banks; authorized banks are on application granted licenses to lend to nonbank nonresi­ dents for periods in excess of 12 months. Special regu­ lations exist for borrowing and lending between head offices (in the Netherlands or abroad) of multinational companies and their branches and subsidiaries. Nonbank residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short-term debt instru­ ments. Nonresidents' purchases of Netherlands treasury paper and guilder bank acceptances are prohibited. Capital transactions, whether freely permitted or not, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of non­ residents are restricted. Du r ing the last ten years, inter­ N E T H E R L A N DS national financial institutions and the authorities of the nonmetropolitan areas of the K ingdom of the Nether­ lands have been the only nonresidents allowed to make bond issues denominated in guilders. Such issues are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank in accord­ ance with the prospects for the domestic capital mar­ ket and the balance of payments. Au thor ized banks may on request be licensed to lead syndicates for the issue of Euro-guilder notes, which, if issued by nonresidents, may be acquired by nonresidents only and the proceeds of which must not be spent in the Netherlands. Au thor ized banks' foreign liabilities must not exceed their foreign claims. In observing this regulation, each bank has a leeway of f. 5 m i l l ion; the calculation of the net foreign position is based on the foreign position in all currencies, including guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities. Subject to this limitation, banks may freely accept deposits from nonresidents, in domestic or foreign currency .1 New capital investments in the Netherlands by non­ residents are in general permitted. Inward direct invest­ ment is freely permitted and local borrowing by non­ resident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies for use in the Netherlands also is freely permitted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or l iqu i­ dation of nonresident investments in industrial enter­ prises and other businesses established in the Nether­ lands is freely permitted. D irect investment abroad by residents is authorized on application, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in officially listed guilder bonds (including mortgage bonds and "interest savings letters" but excluding guilder notes) are subject to special regulations. Trad ing in such bonds is unrestricted but nonresidents' pur­ chases from residents must be financed with O-guilders (see Nonresident Accounts, above); nonresidents selling such bonds to residents may receive payment by credit either to an O-Gu i lder Account or to a Convertible Gu i lder Accoun t. Balances in O -Gu i lder Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresidents and author­ ized banks and stockbrokers may freely deal in O-guilders among themselves and with nonresidents. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in foreign securities and domestic securities other than guilder bonds take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unrestricted; the regulations concerning securities are not applicable to treasury bills. The foreign currency proceeds from securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an author­ ized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents are transferable in 5 With effect from March 9, 1972 the Netherlands Bank revoked the general license (No. PL 419) which had permitted nonresidents to maintain guilder time deposits, and the Bank prohibited residents from paying interest on guilder demand deposits held by nonresidents. Certain exemptions for physical persons came into effect on March 14, for amounts up to f. 25,000 a person. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS any currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them (but see footnote 3 ). Domestic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit require­ ment, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application. Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.6 Em i­ grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being distributed in the Netherlands. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only w i th monetary authorities and international finan­ c ial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Au thor ized banks and other residents may freely pur­ chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold co in, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the foreign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value- added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 14 per cent; sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles con­ taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in H o ng K o n g, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1971 Beginning in December 1970, several foreign issues of guilder bonds by international financial institutions were permitted on the Netherlands capital market; no such issues had taken place since 1968. Ea r ly in 1971, the exchange control rules governing guilder bond issues by nonresidents were eased by the granting of a limited number of licenses for "two-tranche" issues. In the one issue executed, the domestic tranche was to be placed w i th residents and to be listed on the Amster­ dam stock exchange immediately, while the foreign tranche was to be placed outside the Netherlands with nonresidents; the latter tranche could be listed on the 6 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 310 Amsterdam stock exchange three months after the date of issue. Du r ing the year, a considerable number of placings of Euro-guilder notes took place again, both by residents and nonresidents. These are generally sub­ ject to the condition that they may not be acquired by residents and that the proceeds may not be spent in the Netherlands; after the issue, however, notes issued by a resident may be acquired in the market by residents. January 1. The general rate of value-added tax was increased from 12 per cent to 14 per cent. February 1. The agreement concerning the unification of the Benelux customs territory came into force. Cus­ toms formalities in trade with Belgium and Luxem­ bourg were further simplified. May 5. The Netherlands Bank suspended its inter­ vention in the foreign exchange market by purchases of U. S. dollars at the lower intervention point, and the market was closed. It reopened on M ay 10. May 9. The Netherlands Bank revoked, with effect from M ay 10, its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar (f. 3.59% and f. 3.64%, respectively). As a result, the guilder began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for wh ich had been f. 3.62 = U S $ 1. May 12. Compensatory levies were applied to certain agricultural imports originating in other member coun­ tries of the E E C, and compensatory subsidies to cer­ tain agricultural exports to the same countries. Border controls were reintroduced for intra-Benelux trade in the commodities concerned; the levies and subsidies ceased to be applied in trade w i th Be lg ium and L u x­ embourg on August 31, after a "joint float" of the Benelux currencies began (see August 23, below). May 21. The major commercial banks suspended interest payments on guilder demand deposits (maturi­ ties of 30 days or less) held by nonresident banks and by certain nonresident physical persons and non- bank firms. This was followed early in June by an agreement to the same effect that covered a ll authorized banks. June 1. The general permission allowing the sale to nonresidents of domestic treasury paper and guilder bank acceptances with payment to the debit of C o n­ vertible Gu i lder Accounts was revoked, by amendment to general license N o. PL 419 of December 1, 1967. July 1. Generalized tariff preferences on specified commodities originating in most developing countries went into effect. July 14. A most-favored-nation treaty and a long- term trade and payments agreement between Benelux and the U. S. S. R. were signed. They came into force on August 1, when the Netherlands' bilateral payments agreement with the U. S. S. R. was terminated. Settle­ ments with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. As a result, a ll foreign countries hence­ forth were included in the "convertible guilder area" and the last Bilateral Gu i lder Account was closed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 16. The foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The Netherlands guilder continued to float in terms of the U. S. dollar. Transactions in official market Belgian francs, however, henceforth were based on the pre-May 9 cross-parity between the guilder and that currency (f. 1 = BF 13.81215, or BF 100 - f. 7.24), within the pre-May 9 margins of IY2 per cent either side of the cross-parity; to maintain this parity and the margins, the two central banks would intervene in each other's currencies. The new exchange rate arrangements were also applicable to the Luxembourg franc, which was at par with the Belgian franc. August 30. The Benelux countries applied uniform compensatory levies and restitutions in agricultural trade w i th other E EC member countries and th ird countries. September 6. A "closed circuit for bonds" or "O-guilder c i rcu i t" was established for dealings w i th nonresidents in officially listed guilder bonds. Nonresi­ dents cou ld purchase such bonds from residents only with O-guilders, i.e., the proceeds credited to O -Gu i lder Accounts (a new type of nonresident account) of non­ resident-held guilder bonds sold to residents. Nonres i­ dents selling guilder bonds to residents had an option, however, between receiving payment in O-guilders or in freely convertible guilders, and purchases of guilder bonds from residents by nonresidents d id not have to be N E T H E R L A N DS settled by debit to an O-Gu i lder Account if the bonds had on the same day been purchased by the authorized bank or stockbroker concerned from a nonresident with convertible currency rather than by credit to an O-Gu i lder Accoun t. Interest, brokerage, and stamp duty on bonds purchased and sold had to be settled in the same manner as the principal sum, but redemption amounts, bonds drawn, and coupons remained outside the "O-guilder c ircu i t ." Bonds for this purpose were defined as including mortgage bonds and "interest sav­ ings letters" but excluding guilder notes. Transfers between O-Gu i lder Accounts were freely permitted, as were transfers to Convertible Gu i lder Accounts, but the accounts could not be overdrawn. O-guilders, which thus were freely negotiable between nonresidents, began to show a premium over the official market guilder. Au thor ized banks and stockbrokers, but not other resi­ dents, were permitted to deal in O-guilders ("rights to credit an O -Gu i lder Accoun t") with nonresidents and among themselves at freely determined exchange rates. December 20. The foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 21. December 21. A central rate of f. 3.2447 = US$1 was established. The Netherlands availed itself of wider margins of 2XA per cent and the intervention limits for the U . S. dollar were set at f. 3.173/ie buying and f. 3.31% selling. The "joint float" of the Benelux cur­ rencies was continued, with margins remaining at lx<> per cent. The O-guilder market was maintained. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts NETHERLANDS ANTILLES The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands An t i l les Gu i lde r. The gold content of the currency has been established at 0.457293 gram of fine gold. The central rate is A n t. f. 1.79 per US$1 and the authorities avail themselves of wider margins of up to 2% per cent either side of the central rate. The interven­ tion currency is the U. S. dollar. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at An t. f. 1.79 buying and A n t. f. 1.81 selling, per U S $ 1, plus a tax of An t. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U. S. dollar An t. f. 1.825 per U S $ 1. The official selling rates for other currencies (Nether­ lands guilders, Surinam guilders, and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of rates for the U. S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands An t i l les (the central bank) deals w i th commercial banks at fixed rates, those for the U. S. dollar being A n t. f. 1.79 buying, and A n t. f. 1.80 selling. The Bank does not normally deal with the public. Commerc ial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency ba lances ;1 after 1968 such approval has not normally been granted except insofar as the transactions relate to the banks' activities as international financial inter­ mediaries. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Fore ign Exchange Department of the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Department of E con­ omy. The commercial banks are permitted by the cen­ t ral bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without pr ior approval. The central bank may grant nonresidents an exemption from the obliga­ tion of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or monies concerned were acquired from non­ residents and are not being held in favor of or on behalf of, or for the account of, third parties who are resi­ dents; the foreign exchange may then be disposed of freely un t il further notice or un t il revocation by the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands An t i l les guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands An t i l les guilders. F or statistical purposes, a ll payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the central bank. Foreign investment funds, etc., w i th nonresident status are not permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands An t i l les guilders. Other nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in Netherlands An t i l les guilders or in any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and ex­ plosives, are subject to license for public policy reasons. Imports into the islands of A r u b a, Bonaire, and Cu ra­ cao of nonvacuum-packed cereals (other than r i c e ), certain wheat meal and wheat flour, certain fodder and fodder concentrates, and certain other commodities, including citrus fruit, beer, and used automobiles, require an import license issued by the Department of E conomy .2 Otherwise, licenses are required only for imports of passenger automobiles valued at over US$5 ,000; these licenses must be obtained from the central bank. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies w i th nonresident status nor­ mally finance their imports w i th their own foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for family maintenance, medical care, education, and so forth, may be made freely through the authorized banks. F or payments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreci­ ation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Without a license, wh ich is usually granted, residents may not take out more than A n t. f. 200 a person in Netherlands banknotes or other foreign banknotes. Nonresidents may take w i th them on departure any foreign currency wh ich they brought in on arr iva l. The export of Netherlands An t i l les banknotes is limited to A n t. f. 100 a person, or A n t. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Roy al Du t ch Steamship C om­ pany. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an author­ ized bank w i th in six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies w i th nonresident status. 1 A ll currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are con­ sidered foreign currencies. 2 These licensing requirements were extended on January 3, 1972 to a large number of foodstuffs, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, pharma­ ceutical products, cement, and new passenger automobiles. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Fore ign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in eight days of receipt. Travelers may bring w i th them checks, travelers checks, or banknotes in foreign currency in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in A n t. f. 100 in Netherlands An t i l les banknotes, or A n t. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Roy al Du tch Steamship Company. Capital Fore ign investment in the Netherlands An t i l les requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. N ew industrial companies pr imar i ly engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, wh ich confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions w i th residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign assets. Such exemption may also be granted to invest­ ment companies, patent holding companies, shipping companies, and insurance companies. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. L i fe insurance con­ tracts between residents and foreign insurance compa­ nies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (since 1969, such con­ tracts have been permitted up to US$25,000 a person a year). Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued out­ side the Netherlands An t i l les or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands An t i l les) requires a license. Investments by residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds, investment in these not being permitted) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (since 1969, these investments have been permitted up to US$3,000 a person a quarter for small investors and up to US$10,000 a quarter each for others). In consid­ ering applications by such residents as pension funds and other institutional investors, the central bank takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment; the bank may exert moral suasion, however, to discourage excessive outflows of resident-owned capital. Au thor­ ized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with nonresident status) for relending to nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the N E T H E R L A N DS A N T I L L ES Netherlands An t i l les for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and w i th other residents. Res i­ dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permis­ sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not nor­ mally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1971 January 22. Certain imports into the islands of A rub a, Bonaire, and Curac,ao were made subject to import licensing. They included used automobiles, beer, furni­ ture, citrus fruit, bread, wheat meal, wheat flour, corn meal, all cereals, and certain fodder and fodder con­ centrates. March 1. Certain imports into A rub a, Bonaire, and Curasao were prohibited. These were nonvacuum-packed cereals (other than r ice ), certain wheat meal and wheat flour, and certain fodder and fodder concentrates. Sub­ sequently, the prohibition was terminated by a court ruling, and a licensing requirement was substituted. May 7. When the Netherlands Bank revoked its offi­ c ial buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar, the Bank of the Netherlands An t i l les suspended a ll exchange transactions. Transactions were resumed on M ay 11. The Bank maintained its former fixed rates for dealing with the commercial banks at A n t. f. 1.8725 buying, and A n t. f. 1.8775 selling, per US $ 1, and rates for transactions between commercial banks and the public remained at A n t. f. 1.87 and A n t. f. 1.89 per U S $ 1. These rates for the U. S. dollar were subsequently maintained until September 1. Rates for other currencies were determined in the light of quotations in Amsterdam. August 16. The Bank of the Netherlands An t i l les sus­ pended its foreign exchange quotations. Quotations were resumed on August 23. The U. S. dollar rates for trans­ actions between commercial banks and the public were maintained at An t. f. 1.87 buying, and A n t. f. 1.89 sell­ ing, per US$1 (plus the tax of A n t. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange). September 1. The Bank of the Netherlands An t i l les was authorized to vary its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar by up to 3 per cent either side of the official gold parity of the U. S. dollar (i.e., An t. f. 1.88585 per U S $ 1 ), and to establish the rates for other curren­ cies accordingly. The Bank subsequently set daily rates within these limits for the U. S. dollar and certain other currencies, and the Netherlands An t i l les guilder was appreciated accordingly in terms of the U. S. dollar. On November 12, the Government authorized fluctuation bands of 6 per cent either side of the official gold parity of the U. S. dollar. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N E T H E R L A N DS A N T I L L ES December 2. The Foreign Exchange Con t rol Board discontinued its activities. The control of a ll applica­ tions for foreign exchange licenses was transferred to the central bank. December 23. The gold content of the Netherlands An t i l les guilder was changed to 0.457293 gram of fine gold. December 23. A central rate of A n t. f. 1.79 per US$1 was established. The authorities would avail themselves of wider margins of up to 21 /4 per cent either side of the central rate. December 24. The buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in dealings with the public were set at An t. f. 1.79 and A n t. f. 1.81 per U S $ 1. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Do l l a r. The official buying and selling limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, are US$1.2017 and US$1.1887 per $ NZ 1; on December 31, 1971 these were also the official buying and selling rates. New Zealand avails itself of wider margins. Except for the Aus tra l ian dollar, the F i ji dollar, and the Western Samoa tala, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks, including the pound sterling, are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The banks' buying and selling rates for sterling on December 31, 1971 were $NZ 2.1368 and $ NZ 2.1493 per £ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts in U. S. and Canadian dollars and sterling for up to six months to cover trade transactions. Fo rwa rd transactions in U. S. and Canadian dollars are at rates of exchange based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. Fo rwa rd exchange contracts written in ster­ ling are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted with a loading of 40 cents per <£ stg. 100 a month on contracts covering imports and 20 cents per £ stg. 100 a month on export contracts. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in these currencies, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies against sterling may be covered through the London foreign exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the M in is ter of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Bank also is in charge of the controls over foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Industries and Commerce. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling A r ea 1 and has prescription of currency requirements generally similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling A r ea cur- 1 For some purposes, including transactions in securities, the Sterling Area, as defined in New Zealand's exchange control regulations, does not include New Zealand itself. Foreign currencies are defined as cur­ rencies of countries outside the Sterling Area. rency except New Zealand dollars; however, the pro­ ceeds of exports to the Sterling A r ea may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand currency) that is freely exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. Authorized pay­ ments to countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom or in any non- Sterling A r ea currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in a currency of any country outside the Sterling A r ea which is freely exchangeable for sterling in an External Accoun t, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settle­ ment of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("con­ trolled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries in the same currency areas. Banks in other parts of the Sterling A r ea generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annu al Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about 75 per cent of a ll private imports are exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for Ju ly 1, 1971- June 30, 1972, are as follows: Category " E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Aus tra l ian origin are exempt from licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Bas ic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by refer­ ence to qualifying licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period. Category " C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essen­ tiality, availability, and price; for some " C" items, how- 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree­ ment that came into force on January 1, 1966. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N EW Z E A L A ND ever, an in i t ial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for further licenses are con­ sidered individually. Category " D" includes items of a type also produced in New Zealand, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addi­ tion, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued (to the extent of 175 per cent of 1970/71 licenses for the same goods on a value basis, and at 125 per cent where they are issued for a specific quantity of goods) for " D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of importation for certain regularly required goods that correspond to only part of an item code. A ll licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion. Imports from Rhodesia and No r th V i e t -N am, however, are prohibited. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of G roup Schemes (for Industry and Inter- changeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. Under a special arrangement3 in force since 1951, private individuals owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 (which date has been brought forward on several occasions) are per­ mitted to import under "no-remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in " D" categories. Complete motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. Applicants for "no-remittance" import licenses are required to produce evidence that an amount in qualifying funds equal to 100 per c e n t4 of the qualifying funds needed for the license has been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. Under an extension of this arrangement, 50 per cent of overseas funds certified by the Reserve Bank as eligible or securities held overseas prior to June 16, 1966 by private individuals and business concerns may, on appli­ cation, be used to finance commercial imports of com­ pletely knocked-down motorcars and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that the remaining 50 per cent of qualifying funds (i.e., the equivalent of 100 per cent of the amount of the license applied for) be repatriated through the banking system. The Reserve Bank is responsible for issuing certificates of eligibility in respect of approved funds under these schemes, but the granting of a certificate does not estab­ lish an automatic entitlement to a private or commercial "no-remittance" license. 3 The "no-remittance" import license scheme was abolished with effect from February 26, 1972. 4 However, as a special measure to ease the labor position in the assembly industry, the repatriation requirement for imports of com­ pletely built-up cars has been waived up to and including February 25, 1972. 316 The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange in an appropriate currency available for pay­ ments in respect of all licensed imports and a ll imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of justifying documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by justifying documents. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 600 a person a month or part thereof, with a maximum of $ NZ 1,800 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $ NZ 600 a month or for a total of more than $ NZ 1,800 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addi­ tion to the above allocations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Aus tra l ia may sell non-Sterling A rea currencies to N ew Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held Sterling A rea funds; the total amount that may be so provided is the equivalent of $ NZ 2,000 a person in any 12-month period. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication. This also applies to most con­ tractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new commitments such as royalty agreements with over­ seas licensors or overseas borrowing require the pr ior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and /or gifts are made on a yearly basis without d iscr im i­ nation. Remittances by recognized New Zealand re l i­ gious and charitable organizations or individuals operat­ ing as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type speci­ fied above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 100 a remittor, and applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits. A ny resident may freely make personal remittances up to $ NZ 20 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia. Travelers may take with them up to $ NZ 50 in N ew Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 5. Up to $ NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds W i th minor exceptions, a ll exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export proceeds w i ll be sur­ rendered to a trading bank in accordance with the pre­ scription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid un t il December 31, 1972 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rho­ desia and N o r th V i e t -N am are prohibited. Certain items classed as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and subsequent to the issue of a permit to export. Exports of beef, veal, and mutton to the Un i ted States and cheddar-type cheese to the Un i ted K ingdom are subject to restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub­ mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace­ ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components still subject to import con­ trol that are incorporated in the exported goods, as we ll as, subject to certain conditions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufacture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported mate­ rials and/ or components used in manufacture by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,5 such assets or their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than foreign currency or a balance w i th an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the sur­ render takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is free of control (except for non-Sterling Area currencies which, unless sold to a New Zealand bank, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve B a n k ), but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that 5 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or prov i­ sion of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforce­ able by legal proceedings). N EW Z E A L A ND the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a N ew Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins, provided that any New Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $ NZ 5. Capital W i th the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by cor­ porate bodies, there is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Cap i tal so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Cap i tal issues outside N ew Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Reserve Bank; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. In order to encourage the inflow of private foreign capital, forward exchange cover is provided by the Reserve Bank for New Zealand companies borrowing abroad and for foreign-owned companies that have received consent under the Cap i tal Issues Regulations to borrow in New Zealand. Fore ign borrowings under this scheme must be for a specific project. Fo rwa rd exchange cover is for the amount of the capital sum only and is normally limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $ NZ 1 m i l l ion for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Reserve Bank if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance; the ratio between New Zealand and overseas borrowing that is permitted is generally the same as that between N ew Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Trad ing banks do, however, have discretion to make overdrafts of up to $NZ 20,000 available to such companies. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct invest­ ment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any offer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offeror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. W i th in two weeks of registration the M in is ter of Finance must notify the offeror as to whether or not the offer is to be considered further. If further consideration is to be given, the Minister of Finance must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer the whole of their assets to their new country of residence. A p p l i­ cations for the remittance abroad of legacies from the 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N EW Z E A L A ND estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in fu l l. A ll transactions in non-Sterling A r ea securities, whether with nonresidents or between residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zealand resident owning overseas Sterling A r ea securities is free to sell them to residents of the overseas Sterling A r ea (New Zealand being excluded in this context) for over­ seas Sterling A r ea currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas Sterling A rea securities, surrendered, or retained at the disposal of the N ew Zealand resident. W i th limited exceptions, sales of overseas Sterling A rea securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas Sterling A r ea securities or for overseas Sterling A r ea currencies. Overseas Sterling A r ea securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for N ew Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling A r ea countries which were registered in the names of N ew Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an authorized depository. These securities may also be sold for overseas Sterling A r ea currency, in which case the pro­ ceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in overseas Sterling A r ea securities within three months and the resulting scrip deposited. The authorities do not nor­ mally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas Sterling A r ea securi­ ties or other foreign securities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Government bonds purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the United K ingdom to the New Zealand register. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the G o ld Acqu is i t ion No t ice 1948 it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reseive Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. However, newly mined gold must be sold to a licensed gold dealer. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Cus­ toms Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1971 January 1. Add i t ional items were added to the list of imports from Aus tra l ia attracting preferential rates of duty (Schedule A ). January 1. The Companies Amendment A ct 1969 came into force. It required separate accounts for the 318 New Zealand operations of overseas firms to be filed each year with the Registrar of Companies. February 3. Foreign banks were permitted to open representative offices. March 15. Foreign companies were permitted to par­ ticipate in the establishment of merchant banks in New Zealand. June 10. It was announced that the "no-remittance" import license scheme was to be abolished with effect from February 26, 1972. The Government also announced that it had instituted a review designed to replace import licensing with tariffs as the main measure of protection. This objective was to be achieved within five years, although import licensing would be retained in some instances for protection purposes. June 10. A further allocation of $ NZ 5 m i l l ion for completely knocked-down cars was announced; also, licenses would be granted in 1971 for 10,000 additional built-up cars. June 10. App les, pears, eggs, citrus fruit, pineapples, and grapes were exempted from import licensing. June 10. It was announced that the three groups of tax incentives to exporters were being extended to 1973, 1975, and 1977. June 11. Au thor ized banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents for genuine foreign travel requirements up to $ NZ 600 a person a month (or part of a month), with a maximum of $ NZ 1,800 a person in any 12-month period. In addition, travel agents were authorized to accept prepayment in New Zealand cur­ rency for accommodation abroad and for fares, tours, cruises, automobile rental, and sightseeing trips without formality and without deduction from the traveler's allocation of foreign currency. Residents desiring addi­ tional foreign exchange for travel purposes could apply to the Reserve Bank, whose po l icy would be to meet all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. June 11. The restriction on emigrants' transfers was abolished. Previously, there was a l im it of $ NZ 25,000 on in i t ial remittances on departure, with the remainder spread in annual installments over a period of up to five years. Henceforth, new applications were approved by the Reserve Bank in fu l l, and remittances of emi­ grants' funds previously "frozen" in New Zealand also were permitted on application. June 11. The restriction on the remittance of lega­ cies was abolished. Previously, there was a l im it of $ NZ 10,000 on in i t ial application, with the balance spread in annual installments over a period of up to five years. Henceforth, new applications were approved by the Reserve Bank in fu l l, and remittances from funds previously "frozen" in New Zealand also were permitted on application. June 25. An exchange of letters was signed w i th Aus tra l ia setting out a new agreement to promote the rationalization of industry between Aus t ra l ia and New Zealand. July 1. Agreement was reached w i th Aus t ra l ia on a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution further list of commodities to be added to Schedule A of the Free Trade Agreement. July 1. The 1971/72 Import Licensing Schedule (announced on A p r il 6) came into effect. To meet higher import prices, the allocation of basic licenses was established at 107.5 per cent of the 1970/71 level. Token licenses denominated in value terms were set at 175 per cent of the previous level, and token licenses in volume terms were set at 125 per cent of the previous year's level; for the first time in many years, token imports would include such items as cosmetics, refrig­ erators, and radios. In addition, 200 import items valued at some $ NZ 25 m i l l ion were exempted from the licens­ ing requirements. On this basis, about 65 per cent of the value of private imports would be free from import control, compared w i th 55 per cent in the previous licensing period. July 9. Limitations on the export and import of New Zealand currency by travelers were formally eased (the relaxation measures had been applied since June 11 ); the amount that could be taken out was increased from $ NZ 10 to $ NZ 50, and the $ NZ 10 limit on amounts brought in was eliminated, provided that any banknotes brought in were in denominations not larger than $ NZ 5. July 13. The forward exchange facilities offered by the Reserve Bank in respect of sterling contracts were modified. July 21. Priorities for the removal of import control over a period of five years were announced. The G o v­ ernment would proceed on an industry basis rather than on a commodity basis. August 17. N o rm al exchange dealings were sus­ pended, but the Reserve Bank provided facilities for banks to quote rates for sterling, spot and forward. August 24. N o rm al exchange dealings were resumed. The previous parity relationship for sterling ( $NZ 214.29 = <£ stg. 100) was maintained, as were the fixed buying and selling rates for sterling. As a result, the N ew Zealand dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the parity relationship for which had been $ NZ 1 = US$1 .12. September 2. As announced by the Government on May 10, 1971, a b i ll was introduced providing for gen­ eralized tariff preferences for specified goods originating in developing countries. These would go into effect on January 1, 1972. October 7. The first list of items proposed for exemp­ tion from import licensing in terms of the priorities announced on Ju ly 21 was published in the official gazette. November 3. The diversification target for exports of N EW Z E A L A ND lamb to markets outside the Un i ted K ingdom was raised from 15.25 per cent to 22 per cent for the new season. (On January 16, it had been reduced from 16.5 per cent to 15.25 per cent because of lower estimated pro­ duction.) November 23. Trad ing banks were permitted to accept time deposits secured by transferable certificates of deposit in New Zealand dollars. Dealings in certifi­ cates with nonresidents were subject to exchange control approval. December 1. The immediate issue of replacement import licenses for completely knocked-down motor vehicles, and the issue in 1971/72 of additional licenses (to nonassembly companies) valued at $ NZ 1 m i l l ion for built-up cars, were announced. December 17. The extension was announced of the existing long-term export finance facility administered by the Reserve Bank to assist in developing new mar­ kets for exports. Under revised arrangements, the Bank would be prepared to rediscount bills under a line of credit to be made available through the trading banks to finance export suppliers' credit if a sale would riot take place without suppliers' credit being available, and where a sale would be l ike ly to lead to the development of further trade. December 20. Foreign exchange dealings were sus­ pended; they were resumed on December 23. December 21. A scheme was announced for the pro­ vision of forward cover for borrowing abroad by New Zealand companies and by those foreign-owned com­ panies that had received consent under the Cap i tal Issues Regulations to borrow in New Zealand. Cover would be in the form of a contract between the bor­ rower and the Reserve Bank, in the currency of the loan, by which the latter would undertake to sell foreign currency to the borrower at a fixed rate on the day repayment in fu ll or in part was due. Cover would normally be for not less than $ NZ 50,000 and not more than $ NZ 1 m i l l ion for each development project. December 23. The par value in terms of gold and the effective parity relationship for sterling were main­ tained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became $NZ 1 = US$1.21600. Official buying and selling limits for the U. S. dollar were set at US$1.2017 and US$1.1887 per $ NZ 1. F or the time being, these would be actual public buying and selling rates. Rates for other currencies, including sterling, would for the time being be based on London closing rates; fixed official buying and selling rates for sterling were discontinued. New Zealand declared its interven­ tion currency to be the U. S. dollar and availed itself of wider margins. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per N i c a- raguan Cordoba. A central rate of C$7 .00 = US$1 has been established. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals w i th the commercial banks in U. S. dollars, the interven­ tion currency, at C$7 .00 per US $ 1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per U S $ 1. A ll exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7 .00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per U S $ 1. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of V2 of 1 per cent, wh ich results in an effective selling rate of C$7.0875 per U S $ 1. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been dele­ gated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals w i th the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of mone­ tary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determining any advance deposits required; no advance deposit require­ ments are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily converti­ ble into U. S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa R i c a, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in N i c a- raguan cordobas through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mex ico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of Costa R i c a, El Salvador, and Guatemala for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the following amounts a month: 66,250 Costa R ican colones, 125,000 Guatemalan quetzales, and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all countries, except the other Central Ame r ican countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the M in i s t ry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations. A ll imports on credit and a ll prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods and industrial materials; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Cen­ tral Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceutical and veterinary supplies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central Ame r ican Econom ic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arr ival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permis­ sion is at present limited mainly to industrial and agri­ cultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank {constancia de pago) or that acceptance has been made through a bank (constancia de aceptacion). In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Cen tral Ame r ican Common Marke t. Most imports originating outside the Central Am e r i­ can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory consumption tax irrespective of their or ig in. Furthermore, most com­ modities are subject to a 5 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domestically produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and Imports and Import Payments A ll importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any k ind of merchandise and those however, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by­ products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N I C A R A G UA may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur­ rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. lowing privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commerc ial banks and private investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for a ll borrowing abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur­ chased from a bank, with the exception noted in foot­ note 1 ). F or certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the M in i s t ry of Economy can fix m in imum export prices or temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange L aw of M a r ch 1, 1963 or under the L aw on Foreign Invest­ ments of February 26, 1955 (effective M a r ch 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the fo l­ Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank does not purchase gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authorization. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967. Changes during 1971 January 1. The external customs tariff of the Central Ame r ican Common Market and the San Jose import surcharge were applied to imports from Honduras. August 1. Banks had to finance w i th external funds most export credit covering sales outside the Central Ame r ican area. August 23. The par value and the existing official buy­ ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained. December 21. A central rate of C$7 = US$1 was established. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained C$7 per US$1 and the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for that currency continued unchanged. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 — 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Oper­ ations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign coun­ tries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official markel are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Niger itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela­ tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance D iv is ion in the M in is t ry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affairs which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either 1T he C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Daho­ mey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 322 direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the B C E AO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Eco­ nomic Affairs in the M in i s t ry of Econom ic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affairs. Import certificates for liberalized com­ modities are made out by the importer himself and, ^ h en imports are payable prior to importation, are first approved by the External Finance D iv i s ion. Prescription of Currency N iger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle­ ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A rea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in foreign currencies or in French francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. Certain set­ tlements with N ige r ia, however, are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign corre­ spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E AO banknotes, F rench banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports of commodities originating in Portugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South A f r i ca are prohibited. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, and certain footwear and plas­ tic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organi­ zation of A f r i c an and Malagasy States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West A f r ican Customs U n i o n. Imports from France and the Opera­ tions Account countries in the French Franc A r ea of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all goods other than those mentioned may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually a ll goods from A lge r ia, Morocco, Tun is ia, and E EC countries, many goods from other former O E EC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the Un i ted States and Canada are liberal­ ized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from n o n -EEC countries outside the French F ranc A r ea are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program that is deter­ mined each year by the M in i s t ry of Econom ic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by importers and is estab­ lished in mutual agreement within a joint French-Niger Committee. Licenses for printed or unprinted cotton fabrics and for jute bags, however, are issued in pro­ portion to duly substantiated imports from France of a specified quantity of these goods. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Produc­ tion du N iger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. A ll import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than C F AF 25,000 c.i.f. N iger border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance D iv i s ion if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance D i v i­ sion. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per­ mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling on tourist trips to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 100,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to N iger must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll salary of a for­ eigner working in N iger is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the N I G ER transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and, provided it is part of their travel allocation, up to the equiv­ alent of C F AF 75,000 in foreign banknotes. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes but, when traveling to a French Franc A rea country outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, must declare these if they exceed C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to C F AF 25,000. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Directorate of Economic Affairs. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the O P V N. G um arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. W i th the exception of peanuts, peanut o i l, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, a ll of which require a license, a ll other exports to France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may be made freely. Exports to a ll other coun­ tries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be collected and surrendered within two months of the date on which payment falls due. A ll export transac­ tions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds C F AF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A rea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Res­ ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for C FA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Financial Account in Francs or a foreign cur­ rency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with C FA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000). 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N I G ER Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of C F AF 5,000. Capital Cap i tal movements between Niger and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer­ ing for sale of foreign securities in N ige r; these con­ trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay­ ments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities in N iger, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i­ tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private per­ sons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib­ ing to real estate building operations abroad; these spe­ cial controls do apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of N iger require prior authorization by the Minister of F inance .3 Fo r­ eign direct investments in N iger 4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The full or partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest­ ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con­ sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- 8 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 324 eign securities in Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in N iger has previously been author­ ized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ tion : (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of any foreign borrow­ ing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, requires the prior authorization of the M in is te r; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the M in is ter. Lend ing abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Foreign investments in N iger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of Ju ly 31, 1968 (L aw N o. 6 8 - 2 4 / P R N ), as amended by L aw N o. 71-2 of January 29, 1971. Existing bene­ fits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law N o. 61-21 of Ju ly 12, 1961) have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular (de droit commun) treatment. The latter pro­ vides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances with respect to indemnities in the event of nationaliza­ tion, and concerning nondiscrimination between N ige­ rien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions w i ll be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special impor­ tance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime (regime d'agrement) and the agree­ ment regime (regime conventionnel). Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form in N ige r. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in N iger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when car­ ried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N I G ER Changes during 1971 January 29. L aw N o. 71-2 amended the Investment Code (Law N o. 68-24 of Ju ly 31, 1968). April 9. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 75,000 a person a trip for two trips a year to C F AF 100,000 a person a trip for two trips a year. August 14. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. (This measure was revoked on January 5, 1972.) September 4. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in N ige r. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. do l lar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = U S $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Fore ign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Fore ign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on January 5, 1972.) December 24. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were main­ tained. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N IG E R IA Exchange Rate System T he p ar v a l ue is 2 .48828 g rams of fine g o ld p er N i g e r i an P o u n d. T he effective p a r i ty r e l a t i o n s h ip f or the U. S. d o l l ar is £N 1 = U S $ 3 . 0 4. T he C e n t r al B a nk of N i g e r ia quo tes rates at w h i ch it is p r e p a r ed to d e al in s t e r l i ng a nd U. S. d o l l a rs w i th a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs a nd the p u b l i c; s u ch d e a l ings are for a p p r o v ed t r an s a c t ions a nd are on a spot bas is o n l y. T he C e n t r al B a n k 's rates f or s t e r l i ng are d e t e rm i n ed by the B a nk f r om t ime to t im e. T he rates f or the U. S. d o l l ar are d e t e rm i n ed on the bas is of the C e n t r al B a n k 's p r e v a i l i ng ra te f or ster­ l i ng a nd the L o n d on m a r k et rates f or the U. S. d o l l a r. T he C e n t r al B a nk does n ot n o r m a l ly p u b l i sh the rates at w h i ch it w i ll b uy a nd s e ll o ther f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es but it is p r e p a r ed to quo te rates to a u t h o r i z ed dea lers f or spec i f ic t r an s a c t ion s, on a spot basis o n l y, for the c u r­ r e n cy of a ny o ther S t e r l i ng A r ea t e r r i t o ry except S o u th A f r i ca a nd S o u t h -W e st A f r i ca ( N a m i b i a ), or f or any spec i f ied c u r r e n c y .1 F or a p p r o v ed t r an s a c t ions a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay m ay d e al at m a r k et rates, spot or f o rw a r d, be tween themse lves, w i th a u t h o r i z ed b anks in the S t e r l i ng A r e a, a nd w i th res ident and non r e s id ent cu s tom e r s. A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay en ter f ree ly i n to con t r a c ts w i th res iden ts of N i g e r ia f or the pu r ch a se or sale of any f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n cy 2 except R h o d e s i an c u r r e n cy f or d e l i v e ry at a fu tu re da te, p r o v i d ed that the t r a n s a c t i on is one that w o u ld be accep tab le on a spot bas is a nd re la tes to a firm c omm e r c i al c o n t r a ct f or the im p o rt or e x p o rt of goods or to f re ight cha rges on a spec i f ic s h i pm e nt of goods, a nd is exp ressed as p a y a b le in a f o r e i gn c u r­ r e n c y. F o r w a rd con t r a c ts r e l a t ed to im p o r ts m u st not ex t end m o re t h an s ix m o n t hs b e y o nd the e x p i r a t i on date of the im p o rt l i c en s e, or b e y o nd the date of im p o rt w h en the l i c en se has no e x p i r a t i on da te or w h en no l icen se is r e q u i r e d. F o r w a rd con t r a c ts r e l a t ed to expo r ts m ay c o v er any necessa ry p e r i o d, p r o v i d ed that p a ym e nt f or the goods is to be r e c e i v ed w i t h in th ree m o n t hs of sh ipm en t, or w i t h in s u ch l o n g er p e r i od as m ay have been a u t h o r i z e d. U n t il fu r th er n o t i c e, a ll e x p o rt p roceeds a nd o ther p roceeds in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es 2 (except the p roceeds of o il e x p o r t s) are c e n t r a l i z ed w i th the C e n t r al B a n k, w h i ch supp l ies the a u t h o r i z ed b anks w i th f o r e i gn exchange f or a p p r o v ed p a ym e n t s. Administration of Control T he F e d e r al M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce is r e spon s ib le f or b a s ic exchange c o n t r ol p o l i cy a n d, in p r i n c i p l e, f or 1 Austr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U. S. dollars. 42 Fore ign currencies are denned as all currencies other than Nigerian pound. the 326 a p p r o v i ng a p p l i c a t i o ns f or the f o l l o w i n g: the p a ym e nt of s h i p p i ng a nd m a r i ne i n s u r a n ce dues; the r e p a t r i a t i on of c a p i t al a nd t ran s fer of p ro f i ts to any c o u n t ry ou t s ide N i g e r i a; the r a i s i ng of e x t e r n al lo an s, i n c l u d i ng r ep ay­ m ent of s u ch l o a n s; b o r r o w i ng in N i g e r ia by c o m­ pan ies c o n t r o l l ed d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly f r om ou t s ide N i g e r i a; the g r a n t i ng of " a p p r o v ed s ta tus" to n o n­ res ident inve s tmen ts in N i g e r i a; a nd any dea l ings in f o r e i gn secu r i t ie s. T he C e n t r al B a nk of N i g e r ia is the p r i n c i p al a dm i n i s t r a t or of ex ch ange c o n t r o l. M o st c o m­ m e r c i al b a n ks a nd accep tance houses h ave been a p p o i n t ed as a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce a nd thus are em p ow e r ed to d e al in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es a nd to app rove a p p l i c a t i o ns in a c c o r d a n ce w i th i n s t r u c t i o ns issued by the C e n t r al B a n k. A ny a p p l i c a t i on that does not f a ll w i t h in the scope of the a u t h o r i ty of these a u t h o r i z ed dea lers m u st be su bm i t t ed to the C e n t r al B a n k, o r, for the t r an s a c t ions m e n t i o n ed above, to the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. T he C e n t r al B a nk app l ies a sys tem of f o r e i gn exchange r a t i o n i ng in its b iw e e k ly a l l o c a t i o ns of f o r e i gn exchange to a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs. T he a dm i n i s t r a t i on of t rade c o n t r o ls is c a r r i ed out by the F e d e r al M i n i s t ry of T r a de a nd the Im p o rt Q u o ta A l l o c a t i on C omm i t t e e, c om p r i s i ng off ic ia ls of the M i n i s­ t r ies of T r a d e, F i n a n c e, I n d u s t r y, P l a n n i n g, a nd C u s­ tom s, as w e ll as rep resen ta t ives of the C e n t r al B a n k. Prescription of Currency N i g e r ia is a m em b er of the S t e r l i ng A r e a ,3 b ut p a y­ men ts to S t e r l i ng A r ea coun t r i es are subject to the same a p p r o v al r equ i r em en ts that are a p p l i c a b le to se t t lemen ts w i th o th er f o r e i gn c o u n t r i e s. A u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts to c o u n t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o ther t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be m a de in N i g e r i an pounds to an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt in N i g e r i a, in s t e r l i ng to an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt in the U n i t ed K i n g d o m, or in any n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y. A u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts to c o u n t r i es in the S t e r l i ng A r ea m ay be m ade in N i g e r i an p o u n ds to a S c h e d u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u nt in N i g e r i a, or in s t e r l i ng or any o th er S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y. T he p roceeds of expo r ts to f o r e i gn coun t r i es except R h o d e s ia m ay be r e c e i v ed in N i g e r i an p o u n ds f r om an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt or a S c h e d u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n t, or in a spec if ied c u r r e n c y. H o w e v e r, c e r t a in se t t lemen ts w i th N i g er are c h a n n e l ed t h r o u gh s p e c i al a c coun t s. S p e c i al r egu l a t ions a p p ly to se t t lemen ts w i th R h o d e s i a; m o st p aym en ts to R h o d e s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. Nonresident Accounts A c c o u n ts in N i g e r i an pounds of pe rsons res ident ou t­ side N i g e r ia are d i v i d ed i n to th ree c a t ego r i e s: S c h e d u l ed 3 Nigeria's definition of the Sterling A r ea for exchange control purposes does not include South A f r i ca or South-West A f r i ca (N am ib i a ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n t s, m a i n t a i n ed for pe rsons p e rm a­ n en t ly res ident in a f o r e i gn c o u n t ry w i t h in the S t e r l i ng A r e a; R h o d e s ia A c c o u n t s, m a i n t a i n ed f or res iden ts of R h o d e s i a; a nd E x t e r n al A c c o u n t s, m a i n t a i n ed for r e s i­ dents of a ll o ther c o u n t r i e s. Scheduled Territories Accounts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts by res iden ts of N i g e r i a, w i th transfers f r om o th er S c h e d u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n ts a nd f r om E x t e r n al A c c o u n t s, a n d, subject to c om p l i a n ce w i th e x i s t i ng r egu l a t ion s, w i th p roceeds f r om sales of a ll f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es except R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or p aym en ts to res iden ts of N i g e r i a, f or transfers to o ther S c h e d u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n ts and, subject to p r i or a p p r o v a l, to E x t e r n al A c c o u n t s, a nd f or pu rcha ses of s t e r l i ng or o th er S t e r l i ng A r ea cu r r en c i es f or a p p r o v ed pu rpo s e s. Rhodesia Accounts have been b l o c k ed s ince J u ly 3, 1 9 6 9. External Accounts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th a u t h o r i z ed p aym en ts by res iden ts of N i g e r ia to re s iden ts of f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es o th er t h an R h o d e s i a, w i th t rans fe rs f r om o th er E x t e r n al A c c o u n ts a n d, sub ject to a p p r o v a l, f r om S c h e d­ u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n t s, a nd w i th p roceeds f r om sales of f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i es or R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. T h ey m ay be d eb i t ed f or p aym e n ts to res iden ts of N i g e r i a, f or t rans fe rs to o ther E x t e r n al A c c o u n ts a nd to S c h e d u l ed T e r r i t o r i es A c c o u n t s, a nd f or pu rcha ses of f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an R h o d e s i an c u r r e n c y. Imports and Import Payments A ll im p o r t e rs m u st be r eg i s t e r ed. A ll im p o r ts f r om R h o d e s i a, S o u th A f r i c a, a nd S o u t h -W e st A f r i ca ( N a m i b i a) are p r o h i b i t e d, as is the im p o rt f r om a ll coun t r i es of c e r t a in spec i f ied c omm o d i t i es f or h e a l t h, safety, m o r a l, or r e l i g i o us reasons; the im p o rt of about 20 o th er c omm o d i t i es or g roups of c omm o d i t i es is a lso p r o h i b i t ed un less spec i f ic c o n d i t i o ns have been c o m p l i ed w i th a nd these c o n d i t i o ns are spec i f ied in the l i c en se a u t h o r i z i ng s u ch im p o r t s. I n d i v i d u al im p o rt l icenses are r e q u i r ed f or c e r t a in goods f r om a ll sou rces, i n c l u d i ng p r o d u c ts the e x p o rt of w h i ch is sub ject to M a r k e t i ng B o a rd c o n t r ol (see sec t ion on E x p o r ts a nd E x p o rt P r o c e e d s, b e l o w ). Im p o r ts n e i th er p r o h i b i t ed n or sub­ ject to spec i f ic l i c e n s i ng m ay be im p o r t ed u n d er o p en gene ral l i c e n s e. M a n d a t o ry d e f e r r ed p a ym e nt p e r iods h ave been e s tab l i shed f or m a ny c omm o d i t i e s. A u t h o r i z ed dea lers m ay o th e rw i se g rant f o r e i gn exchange for a ll a u t h o r i z ed im p o r t s. P a ym e nt in advance of sh ipm ent r equ i r es the a p p r o v al of the C e n t r al B a nk a nd is n ot n o r m a l ly a l l ow e d. A " n a t i o n al r e c o n s t r u c t i on s u r c h a r g e" of 5 p er cent of the a p p l i c a b le im p o rt d u ty is l e v i ed on v i r t u a l ly a ll im p o r t s. Payments for Invisibles M o st p aym en ts to R h o d e s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. P a ym e n ts N I G E R IA f or i n v i s i b l es to res iden ts of o ther c o u n t r i es are subject to i n d i v i d u al a p p r o v a l; f or some ca tego r ies of i n v i s i b l es th is is g r an t ed e i t h er up to spec i f ied l im i ts or up to the am o u nt of the b i ll or i n v o i ce by the a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs. A p p l i c a t i o ns for p aym en ts that c a n n ot be a p p r o v ed by the a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs a nd are not am o ng those r e q u i r­ i ng a p p r o v al by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n ce ( s u ch as prof i ts a nd d i v i d e n d s )4 are f o rw a r d ed to the C e n t r al B a n k, w h i ch g ives a p p r o v al for some types of p a ym e n t, p r o­ v i d ed that t ax a nd o th er r equ i r em en ts h a ve been sa t is­ fied. H o w e v e r, c e r t a in de lays m ay o c c ur in the g r a n t i ng of the ex ch ang e. A ll i n s u r a n ce o ther t h an that f or w h i ch f a c i l i t i es do not ex ist in N i g e r ia m u st be t a k en out w i th a c om p a ny in N i g e r ia a nd a ll i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i es o p e r a t i ng in the c o u n t ry mu st r e in su re w i th the N a t i o n al In su r an ce C o r p o r a t i o n. S i x ty p er cent of s h ip ch a r t er p aym en ts f or e x p o rt sh ipm en ts m u st be se t t led in l o c al c u r r e n c y. R e s i d e n ts are e n t i t l ed to a b a s ic tou r i st t r a v el a l l ow­ ance of <£N 75 a p e r s on a y e ar f or t r a v el ou t s ide A f r i ca ( < £N 37 a y e ar f or c h i l d r e n, subject to a l i m it of <£N 190 f or a ny one f am i ly u n i t ). F o r e i gn ex ch ange f or th is pu rpo se m ay be s o ld to res iden ts by a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs. In a d d i t i o n, t r a v el agents a nd s h i p p i ng a nd a i r­ l i ne c om p a n i es in N i g e r ia m ay s e ll t r a n s p o r t a t i on t i ck e ts for any d e s t i n a t i o n, except R h o d e s i a, aga inst p a ym e nt in N i g e r i an c u r r e n c y. T he cost of se rv ices r end e r ed by t r a v el agents in respect of h o t el a c c omm o d a t i o n, mea ls en rou t e, e tc ., mu st be c o v e r ed f r om the b a s ic t r a v el a l l ow a n c e. T h e re is a separate a l l ow a n ce of £N 25 ( < £N 75 f or any one f am i ly u n i t) a p e r s on a y e ar f or t r a v el w i t h in A f r i c a. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or n o n t o u r i st t r a v el mu st be s u bm i t t ed to the C e n t r al B a n k. F o r e i gn n a t ion a ls r e s i d i ng in N i g e r ia m ay pu r ch a se a n n u a l ly f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy up to 25 p er cent of t h e ir gross t ax ab le ea rn ings in N i g e r ia for a ll p e r s o n al r em i t t an c e s, i n c l u d­ i ng the b a s ic t r a v el a l l ow a n c e, up to a m a x i m um of £N 3 ,000 a p e r son in any financial y e a r; t rans fe rs of m an ag em ent fees a nd d i r e c t o r s' fees, h ow e v e r, are l im i t ed to <£N 1,000 a p e r s on a y e a r. P e r sons g o i ng a b r o ad are p e rm i t t ed to take w i th th em the e q u i v a l e nt of <£N 50 in s t e r l i n g. R e s id en ts are p e rm i t t ed to take out the e q u i v a l e nt of t h e ir ba s ic t r a v el a l l ow a n ce in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy notes; non r e s id ent v i s i t o rs m ay take out <£N 50 in s t e r l i ng a nd a ny o ther f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy notes that we re d e c l a r ed u p on en t ry. T he e x p o rt of N i g e r i an c u r r e n cy no tes a nd co ins is p r o h i b i t e d. Exports and Export Proceeds E x p o r ts to R h o d e s ia are p r o h i b i t e d. M o st l o c a l ly p r o d u c ed goods m ay be e x p o r t ed f ree ly, u n d er o p en g en e r al l i c en s e, to a ny o ther c o u n t ry except S o u th A f r i ca a nd S o u t h -W e st A f r i ca ( N am i b i a) (expor ts to these coun t r i es r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al l icenses ). I n d i v i d u al 4 In 1968, an embargo was placed on the transfer of investment income accruing to nonresidents. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N I G E R IA export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of t in, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marke t ing Boards (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut o i l, palm o i l, and palm kernels). The selling abroad of a ll export crops purchased by the Boards is the responsibility of the N iger ian Produce Marke t ing Company. The export of certain goods (African antiqui­ ties or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foods is prohibited. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrange­ ments. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank w i th in three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petro­ leum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. F or a ll exports, including those destined for a country in the Sterling A r e a, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the requirement also applies to exports of hydrocarbon oils to the Sterling A r e a. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Central Bank. Persons entering N ige r ia may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of N iger ian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing im p o r t s5 or exports, permission from the M in i s t ry of Finance is required for any ind iv idua l, firm, company, or branch resident in N ige r ia to borrow in any country outside N ige r ia. Official agencies and state-controlled corpora­ tions require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance is also required for borrowing in N iger ia (1) by any nonresident ind iv idual or com­ pany, and (2) by any company registered in N ige r ia (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside N ige r ia. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short­ ages of funds, licensed banks in N ige r ia may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or over­ draft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for 5 However, the taking up of suppliers' credit abroad (as distin* guished from the mandatory deferred payments for imports) is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. 328 any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance N ige r ian imports or exports of goods. Residents of N ige r ia may not deal in foreign cur­ rency securities nor may they buy from or sell to non­ residents of N ige r ia any security payable in N iger ian pounds without the permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in N ige r ia and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the pr ior permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance is obtained. Nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea intending to make direct investments in N ige r ia are invited to apply to the M in i s t ry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration w i ll be given to future requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchases of shares on the stock exchange in N ige r ia unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. A ll foreign- owned companies and commercial banks operating in N ige r ia must be incorporated in N ige r ia. The repatria­ tion of foreign capital requires approval from the M in i s t ry of Finance. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in N ige r ia for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special per­ mission to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori­ ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Further­ more, the import of gold coins current in the Un i ted K ingdom requires a license from the Commissioner of Customs and Excise. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bu l l ion are duty-free when made by the Cen tral Bank for monetary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1971 January 1. Residents wishing to travel abroad more than twice in any calendar year, other than for recog­ nized official or business purposes, required approval to do so. January J. The 40 per cent tax payable on interest on loans obtained outside N ige r ia was halved for loans with maturities in excess of five years and up to ten years, and waived for those longer than ten years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 1. A foreign exchange budget was introduced. April 1. The Import Proh ib i t ion Order, 1971, came into effect. It placed most imports under open general license. Un l ike the previous one, this open general license applied also to Japan. Specific licenses were required for rice, wheat, tobacco, mineral water, alco­ holic beverages other than wine, kraft paper and paper- board, and packing containers other than those made of glass. The requirement for individual licenses for a ll imports from Hong K o n g, Japan, and Macao, as we ll as from A lb an i a, mainland Ch in a, Eastern Germany, No r th Ko r e a, Rumania, Tibet, and No r th V i e t -N am was abolished. The importation of goods from South A f r i c a, Rhodesia, and South-West A f r i ca (Namibia) remained prohibited. The Order was amended slightly on June 10. April 1. The Government announced its po l icy to liquidate arrears on import payments by M a r ch 31, 1972. Acco rd ing ly, foreign exchange allocations amounting to £N 30 m i l l ion each were made in A p r i l, June, Ju ly, and November 1971. Two final allocations were made early in 1972. April 1. The Government announced that, as in the previous financial year, remittances of profits, d iv i­ dends, management, technical, and service fees, roya l­ ties, commissions, and N iger ian companies' share of expenses incurred by their offices abroad would be limited to 40 per cent of the amounts outstanding at the end of the previous calendar year. Amounts accru­ ing in 1971 wou ld, in the meantime, accumulate as arrears. Royalties due to nonresident authors would be treated as personal remittances and remitted in fu l l. April 1. The Exchange Con t rol (Payments for Import) Order, 1971, introduced a system of mandatory deferred payments for imports. Payments could be made, at the earliest, 90 days after arr ival in N ige r ia, as evidenced by the customs b i ll of entry, for day-old chicks, m i lk, salt, cement, sugar, baby foods, pharma­ ceutical products, fertilizers and chemicals for agricul­ tural purposes, essential raw materials for industries, and capital goods valued at not more than <£N 25,000. Cap i tal goods valued at over £N 25,000 were payable on the following basis: 5 per cent against documents or on signing of contract; 15 per cent on delivery; and 80 per cent in not less than one year for amounts up to <£N 50,000, in not less than two years for amounts between £N 50,000 and £N 100,000, in not less than three years for amounts between <£N 100,000 and <£N 500,000, in not less than five years for amounts between <£N 500,000 and £N 1 m i l l ion, and in not less than seven years for amounts over <£N 1 m i l l ion. N IG E R IA A ll other goods required credit terms of at least 180 days. The Order was amended slightly on June 10. A pril 1. The basic allowance for travel outside A f r i ca was reduced from £N 100 (<£N 50 a year for ch i l­ dren, with a l im it of <£N 250 a family) to £N 75 a person a year (<£N 37 a year for children, with a l im it of <£N 190 a family). This travel allowance was included in the ceiling imposed on personal remittances by resident foreign nationals. The allowance for travel within A f r i ca was increased from £N 1 to £N 25 a person a year, with a l im it of £N 75 a family, and was deducted from the annual l im it of «£N 75 when further trips outside A f r i ca were undertaken. The requirement of approval for travel by residents going abroad more than twice a year for other than official or business purposes was abolished. April 1. Remittances by resident foreign nationals for the maintenance of their dependents abroad or for their own account were reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent of their gross salaries, with a maximum of <£N 3,000 a person a year, as against <£N 3,500 previously. Applications for leave pay, and remittances in respect of insurance, educational, and medical expenses beyond the above limits were considered on their merits by the Central Bank. April 26. A N iger ian Na t ional O il Corporation was established. June 17. Twenty-six categories of business enterprises were reserved for Nigerian nationals. July 15. Export proceeds again had to be surrendered through commercial banks rather than direct to the Central Bank. August 23. The pre-August 15 official buying and selling rates (<£ 116%4-<£ 1 1613/IH) were maintained for a ll transactions in sterling. F or a ll "official" transactions in U. S. dollars, i.e., Government and trade transac­ tions, the pre-August 15 official buying and selling rates of US$2.82 and US$2.78 continued to be applied. F or "nonofficial" transactions in U. S. dollars, including p r i­ vate capital flows and travelers checks and banknotes, a floating rate based on the London rates for the U. S. dollar against sterling was applied. November 1. The Nigerian pound was unpegged from sterling and the two-tier exchange rate system introduced in August was abolished. A ll exchange trans­ actions in U. S. dollars were based on the pre-August 15 parity of <£N 1 - US$2 .80. December 23. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became £ N1 = US$3 .04. Subsequently, N ige r ia availed itself of wider margins. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per N o r­ wegian K rone. A central rate of N Kr 6.64539 = US$1 has been established, and No rway avails itself of wider margins. The official limits for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, are N Kr 6.495 buying, and N Kr 6.795 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the exchange authorities w i ll buy or sell; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits which result from com­ bining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by No rway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Fo rwa rd premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Fo r­ ward transactions w i th residents other than banks must have a commercial basis. No rway formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from M ay 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of No rway. The authority to approve most current pay­ ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture or the M in is t ry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of No rway. Prescription of Currency Payments between No rway and Rhodesia are pro­ hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in a ll other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with a ll other countries except Eastern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible K rone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments between N o r­ way and Eastern Germany are settled on a bilateral basis in accordance with a clearing arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Conver­ tible K rone Accoun t. Such accounts may be held by residents of a ll countries except Eastern Germany (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers from other Convertible K rone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may 330 be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of No rway, for transfers to other Convertible K rone Accounts, and for purchases in No rway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Practically a ll industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list area 1 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, inc lud­ ing certain temperate zone agricultural products, are restricted, irrespective of or ig in. There are two restricted lists for specified countries—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po land, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R ., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Ko r e a; many of the goods on these lists are licensed auto­ matically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 13 quotas for agricul­ tural products for wh ich imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to a ll countries. N ew and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years o ld or older and certain categories of fish­ ing vessels, may be imported freely, but special permis­ sion is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical prod­ ucts, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity w i th the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any other country except Eastern Ge r­ many for a ll current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments arrangement, a liberal practice being followed w i th regard to most invisibles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany or Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, pro­ vided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of N Kr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not 1 A ll countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to N Kr 5,000 a trip for each person. F or business travel, the banks may sell reason­ able amounts. Each person leaving No rway may take with h im up to N Kr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding N Kr 100. N o n­ residents leaving No rway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,2 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regu­ lation are listed and require export licenses. A ll exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than N Kr 500 to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship­ ment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, a ll exchange from exports must be surrendered, but this requirement has been suspended un t il further notice. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered, but this requirement has been suspended un t il further notice. Each person entering No rway may bring in Norwegian banknotes and coins up to N Kr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding N Kr 100, and other means of payment without l im i t. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in N o r­ way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of No rway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in No rway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also per­ mitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. No rwe­ gian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian resi­ dents who w i ll be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and 2 A ll countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo­ vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. N O R W AY amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the Interna­ tional Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest­ ments, have to be surrendered, but this requirement has been suspended until further notice. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio invest­ ment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident- owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they have been bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of No rway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on M ay 31, 1969. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to N Kr 60,000 a family. There are limits on the foreign positions of domestic commercial banks, which are subject to guidelines con­ cerning their borrowing abroad. The aggregate net for­ eign exchange position of banks may not deviate by more than N Kr 260 m i l l ion from the position at the end of October 1971. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or providing guar­ antee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in No rway for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of No rway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to sales tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1971 February 23. Residents were prohibited from purchas­ ing securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds. Residents already holding shares in for­ eign mutual funds could no longer transfer them to other residents but were allowed un t il further notice to hold them for their own account; if they were holding 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N O R W AY the shares abroad or in a foreign dossier, they could, subject to the existing regulations, sell them to nonresi­ dents and reinvest the sales proceeds in foreign securi­ ties. June 25. The amount up to which residents were freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for recreational purposes was increased from N Kr 50,000 to N Kr 60,000. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It was reopened on August 23. August 23. The Bank of Norway's obligation to pur­ chase U. S. dollars at the lower intervention point of N Kr 7.09 was suspended; the l im it for the official selling rate was maintained at N Kr 7.20. As a result, the krone began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. The par value was maintained. It was announced that fluctua­ tions in the rate between the krone and foreign curren­ cies would be kept within moderate limits. August 23. The surrender requirement in respect of residents' receipts of foreign exchange was suspended un t il further notice. October 1. A system of generalized tariff preferences for specified imports from most developing countries came into force. A ll commodities covered were granted fu ll duty-free entry, without limitation by tariff quotas. December 13. New guidelines for borrowing abroad were introduced. The aggregate net foreign exchange position of the banks was not to deviate by more than N Kr 260 m i l l ion from that at the end of October 1971. The fluctuations in each bank's net foreign exchange assets were to be kept within a l im it on either side of the end-October level equivalent to 6 per cent of the average end-month position in the first ten months of 1971. In addition, no bank was to allow its deposits and loans from foreign banks to increase to more than 20 per cent above the end-1970 level without the approval of the Bank of No rway. December 21. A central rate of N Kr 6.64539 = US$1 was established. No rway availed itself of wider margins. The Bank of No rway established new official interven­ tion points for the U. S. dollar at N Kr 6.495 and N Kr 6.795. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution O M A N1 Exchange Rate System Oman's currency is the R i al Saidi, which is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value has yet been established. The currency is at par with sterling, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1971, the buying and selling rates for sterling were RS 0.995 and RS 1.005 per £ stg. 1, respectively. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on Oman's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against sterling. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in Oman. The commercial banks operating in Oman have discretionary power to refuse to make payments outside the Sterling A r ea on behalf of Sterling A rea residents with exchange or ig i­ nating in that A rea which accrues to a resident of the Sterling A r e a .2 The banks consult the Secretary for F inanc ial Affairs before approving outward capital transfers exceeding RS 20,000 to countries inside or outside the Sterling A r e a. Prescription of Currency A ll settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro­ hibited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rhodesia also is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force, but payments by residents of the Sterling A r ea with exchange originating in the A r ea may be restricted, as indicated above. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from a ll sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of M a r ia Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for pay­ ments abroad may be obtained freely, except that payments outside the Sterling A r ea by residents of the Sterling A r ea may be restricted, as indicated above. 1 Oman became a member of the International Monetary Fund on December 23, 1971. 2 The United Kingdom's exchange control regulations treat Oman as a territory of the Sterling Area. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. A ll other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur­ rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard­ less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments outside the Sterling A r ea by residents of the Sterling A r ea may be restricted, as indicated above. Payments must not, how­ ever, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Oman any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi­ dents, except that no payments must be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Cap i tal transfers out­ side the Sterling A r ea by residents of the Sterling A r ea may be restricted, as indicated above, and the banks consult the Secretary for F inanc ial Affairs concerning a ll outward capital transfers exceeding RS 20,000, including those to the Sterling A r e a. Gold The monetary authorities and a ll other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1971 August 23. The r ial Saidi remained pegged to sterling at par. As a result, the currency began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relation­ ship for which had been RS 1 = US$2 .40. December 21. The rial Saidi remained pegged to sterling at par. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became RS 1 = US$2 .60571. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAK ISTAN Exchange Rate System * The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or PRs 4.76190 = US$1. The exchange rate system is based on this rate for the U. S. dollar; the State Bank of Pakistan maintains official rates of PRs 4.7619 buying and PRs 4.7775 selling per US $ 1. A ll transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. Au thor ized dealers in Pakistan are per­ mitted to cover in the London market their requirements of specified currencies. They may also cover their per­ mitted transactions in specified currencies against U. S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries con­ cerned. Other effective rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and certain other earners or recipients of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodities or to importers or others to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. The vouchers are quoted spot and forward on the Ka rachi and Lahore stock exchanges. On Decem­ ber 31, 1971, these vouchers issued under the Export Bonus Scheme were quoted at about PRs 194 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Foreign tourists receive an effective exchange rate based on 45 per cent bonus. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 21 banks and financial institutions authority to deal in a ll foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre­ scribed by the State Bank. The Ch ief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through the Trad ing Corporation of Pakistan, L t d ., a state trading agency. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling A r ea countries. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of Ch ina, India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended; there is an inoperative clearing account with India. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling A rea must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling A r ea (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling A r e a. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling A r ea must be obtained in sterling from an Ex ternal Account in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom, in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank outside the Sterling A r e a, or in any non-Sterling A rea currency. Payments abroad must be made through an author­ ized dealer. Payments by residents of Pakistan to coun­ tries in the Sterling A r ea are made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling A r ea currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling A r ea are made by trans­ ferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. F or imports, payment is normally made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in incon­ vertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, N o r th Ko r e a, Nepa l, Po land, Ruman ia, the U. S. S. R ., and Yugos lav ia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. Payments to and from Iran and Tu rkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian o i l, and defense mate­ rials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U. S. dollars. Certain settlements w i th Cey lon are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Au tho r ized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the Un i ted K ingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control authorities for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India are b locked .1 Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, a licensable list, an export bonus list (also called bonus import list), and a cash-cum-bonus list. A ll * With effect from May 11, 1972, the par value was changed to 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan rupee and the export bonus scheme was abolished. 1 On January 18, 1972 the restrictions on the bank accounts of the Indian High Commission and its personnel were lifted. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports require licenses, except goods on the free l i s t2 and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items per­ mitted under a M in i s t ry of Commerce Notification (No. 335 /260 /24 of June 12, 1951). The commercial import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered industrial consumers and commercial importers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, l im i­ tations are applied to ind iv idual import entitlements for goods on this list, ceilings on ind iv idual letters of credit being based on past import performance. Permissible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for a ll items on the list. Import licenses for commodities on the licensable list are granted on a discretionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items on the export bonus list and the cash-cum-bonus list are issued in accordance w i th procedures indicated below. Goods on the free list and the licensable list are imported at the official exchange rate. Commodities not included in any of the four lists are prohibited or are not being licensed. W i th the exception of specific country licenses issued in accordance w i th trade, aid, or loan agreements with particular countries, import licenses may be used in any country of the wo r ld other than the Republic of Ch ina, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Certain imports are only or in part effected through the intermediary of the T rad ing Corporation of Pakistan, L t d .; they include sugar from specified countries, specified raw materials, pig i ron, and certain other metals. L icens ing takes place in accordance with criteria that are determined admin­ istratively, and imports take place at the official rate but, depending on the commodity, may be subject to price equalization levies. Imports of rice, wheat, and coal are also reserved for public sector agencies. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to estab­ lished commercial importers and industrial consumers and only for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. The quantities to be licensed to estab­ lished importers are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special industrial licensing procedure operates for imports of licensable items by recognized industrial units. Th is procedure allows specified indus­ tries to receive import licenses for items not on the free list on a specific basis determined by the competent authority. F or items on the licensable list, industrial consumers receive licenses according to fixed entitle­ ments based on requirements for operations at single- shift capacity; commercial importers receive licenses under fixed quotas based on past import performance. Supplementary import licenses under a Raw Ma ter ial Replenishment Scheme are granted to specified export- 2 While private sector imports of free list items do not require an import license, public sector agencies require either an allocation from the Government or an authorization. A ll free list imports must be financed under aid arrangements or bilateral agreements. P A K I S T AN ing industries. The imports concerned must be made on cash-cum-bonus terms. Import licenses are issued freely under the Export Bonus Scheme for items on the export bonus list and for any item (other than sheet or plate glass) included in the free list, licensable list, or cash-cum-bonus list, provided that bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the amount of the license requested are surrendered when applying for an import license. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply w i th in 90 days (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. Th is license is issued without restriction and without the importer having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are va l id for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Licensing of items on the cash-cum-bonus list is subject to the surrender of bonus vouchers equiv­ alent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license. Indus­ tr ial consumers importing under the Raw Ma te r ial Replenishment Scheme and, in specified circumstances, other commercial and industrial importers, must sur­ render vouchers for imports no later than 15 days after the receipt of the shipping documents (subject to bank guarantee, indemnity bond, or, for public sector imports, letter of authority from the government department concerned). Capital goods generally are licensed only under for­ eign aid. Imports of capital goods are payable at the official rate, but any required downpayment on private sector imports of capital goods and on most public sec­ tor imports of such goods requires surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the downpay­ ment (which is normally 10 per cent). Under a Pay- A s -You -E a rn Scheme, certain plant and machinery may be imported and financed on a deferred payment basis. Industrial units covered by the Scheme may use up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of export earnings for meeting their debt liabilities. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news­ papers, and those against bonus import licenses, irre­ vocable letters of credit must be opened for a il commer­ c ial imports. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for wh ich deposits have to be made with foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No import payments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or con­ signed from the Republic of Ch ina, India, Israel, Rho­ desia, or South A f r i c a. Imports at the official rate of certain aid-financed iron and steel items, cement, coal, edible oils, and raw materials for the electrical equipment industry, etc., are subject to price equalization levies; the same items, 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A K I S T AN when not financed w i th aid, are imported at the cash- cum-bonus rate. Imports of a ll commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty. M any imports are sub­ ject to a customs surcharge ("regulatory du ty " ). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to the Republic of Ch ina, India, Israel, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regula­ tions. Certain remittances of a personal nature are sub­ ject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad require special authori­ zation. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Most payments for invisibles are made at the official rate but some (payments for medical treatment, pro­ fessional training, operating expenses of Pakistan ships, technical fees, office expenses abroad, advertisement and legal fees, bank commissions and charges, royalties, trademarks, and patent and registration fees) are at the cash-cum-bonus rate, i.e., subject to surrender of bonus vouchers equal in face value to 50 per cent of the for­ eign exchange required. Certain insurance payments are made on 45 per cent bonus and 55 per cent cash terms. In addition, certain exchange allocations for pilgrimages are granted at exchange rates deviating from the official rate (see be low ). The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made w i th the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities, but such remit­ tances must be effected at the cash-cum-bonus rate. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi A r a b i a; for those traveling by air or first class by steamer, the allowance is subject to surrender of bonus for an equivalent amount.3 Those eligible are selected by ballot. There are also minor pilgrimage facilities for other M idd le Eastern countries, subject to similar conditions for surrender of bonus. No exchange is being granted until further notice for tourism or other 3 Deck passengers are granted their allocation at the official rate, and those traveling second class by steamer are allowed their exchange quota against surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of that quota. 336 private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. Pakistan writers and journalists and certain other earners of foreign exchange from services sup­ plied abroad may use their foreign exchange earnings for approved travel abroad. The approval of the State Bank is required prior to booking passage for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan currency. Persons traveling on Category " A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of <£10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to m in imum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the Un i ted K ingdom. Exports to the Republic of Ch in a, India, Israel, Rho­ desia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The Trad ing Corporation of Pakistan, L t d ., has a monopoly over exports of specified products. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he w i ll surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. Af ter making certain that the exporter's declaration meets a ll conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months; export proceeds from jute manufactures, however, must be repatriated within six months. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Under an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to a ll goods, exporters after surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency are issued bonus vouchers of a face value equivalent to 10 per cent or 15 per cent (for primary products) or 35 per cent or 45 per cent (for other goods) of the net exchange surrendered. Bonus vouchers are also issued to approved sales centers for their local sales to nonresidents against payment in foreign exchange. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 15 days of the date of realization of export proceeds or of the date of export, whichever is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution later (within 15 days from the date of negotiation of documents in case of exports against confirmed or irrevocable letters of credit) for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are not otherwise licensed for importation, as we ll as any commodity (except sheet or plate glass) included in any one of the three other import lists. Under a P ay -A s -You -E a rn Scheme, certain industrial units are permitted to utilize up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Under a Raw Ma te r ial Replenishment Scheme, sup­ plementary import licenses are available to most export­ ing industries. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Afghan currency, wh ich may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Under the Export Bonus Scheme earners of foreign exchange derived from certain invisibles are issued bonus vouchers of a face value equivalent to 10 or 45 per cent of the exchange surrendered. Foreign tourists receive an effective rate of exchange based on 45 per cent bonus. Pakistanis and persons of Indo- Pakistan origin who are employed abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 45 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to Pakistan through official channels; Pakistanis receiving pensions in foreign exchange are entitled to receive 45 per cent bonus; and Pakistanis receiving earnings in foreign exchange abroad from a wide range of professional, commercial, and cultural services also receive 45 per cent bonus and may alternatively use their foreign exchange earnings for approved foreign travel. Earners of foreign exchange from certain other services (air­ craft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 10 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equiva­ lent to 45 per cent of their exchange earnings. Bonus facilities apply also to all projects in Pakistan that are financed by the I B RD or the I D A; a ll sup­ pliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 45 per cent of the foreign exchange earned from machinery items and 35 per cent from a ll other supplies, but not to bonus vouchers for advance payments. Persons traveling on Category " A" visas (from India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 20 in Pak­ istan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50, 100, and 500 may not be brought in. There is P A K I S T AN no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop­ ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being la id down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expen­ diture w i ll ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest­ ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the invest­ ment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in Na t ional Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatria­ tion at any time of the principal and the prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign secur­ ities by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of securities issued in Pakistan in favor of nonresidents, provided the securities are registered in Pakistan and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general license has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na t ional Investment Trust, subject to 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A K I S T AN certain stipulations. Foreign life insurance companies have been given general permission to invest in shares issued by Pakistan companies and quoted on the stock exchange. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements may be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistan nationals resi­ dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit­ tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non­ resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistan nationals holding movable or immovable assets abroad require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell these, and the liquida­ tion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1971 January 1. The import program for the first half of 1971 went into effect. Changes from the previous pro­ gram were relatively minor, but no provision was made for certain nonessential consumer goods; these included passenger automobiles, domestic airconditioners, various domestic appliances, and the more expensive types of watches. March 5. The facility for writers and journalists to use foreign exchange earnings for the import of articles for their personal use was withdrawn, but the 45 per cent bonus given to such earnings when repatriated to Pakistan was extended to artists' earnings. March 11. Special exchange facilities were extended to pilgrims to Iran and Iraq for ziarat. April 15. Delegated authority to authorized dealers covering remittances for specified subscriptions, mem­ bership fees, purchases of academic and technical litera­ ture, and reimbursement of specified charges overseas on export cargoes was withdrawn. April 24. The import program for the first half of the year was revised: 46 items on the bonus import list were prohibited and 28 items on the licensable list financed from Pakistan's own exchange resources (including gasoline and petroleum products) were moved to the cash-cum-bonus list. Wh i le import duties were reduced or abolished for some affected items, a regulatory import duty of 25 per cent was applied with 338 specified exceptions to imports on the free and licensable lists financed from aid and under bilateral arrangements. W i th the exception of edible oils, licensing for exports under the Raw Ma ter ial Replenishment Scheme, and 36 items retained for East Pakistan only, the existing cash-cum-bonus import list was suspended, items on the list having henceforth to be financed at the full bonus rate. Restrictions on interwing trade and regula­ tions permitting the surrender of bonus vouchers at the time of receipt of shipping documents rather than at the time of application for import licenses were liber­ alized. April 24. The rate of bonus on exports of jute wool- packs was raised from 35 per cent to 45 per cent. April 28. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to receipts by Pakistani architects and consultants for services provided abroad. May 6. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to foreign exchange earnings of Pakistani shipping com­ panies from conference pools. June 3. The rate of bonus on exports of fluorspar/ fluorite was raised from 35 per cent to 45 per cent. June 27. The import program for the second half of 1971 was announced; it involved only minor changes in import po l icy. July 10. The bonus on raw jute exports was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. July 19. Remittances by foreign-owned enterprises for head office expenses abroad, previously effected at the official rate, were to be effected at the cash-cum- bonus rate. July 22. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to commissions in foreign exchange on imports earned after Ju ly 8 by registered indenting agents. July 30. The amount of Pakistan currency notes which persons other than those traveling on Category " A" visas could take into Pakistan was reduced from PRs 80 to PRs 20. September 17. The Pakistan rupee, previously pegged to sterling, was repegged to the U. S. dollar, w i th the State Bank selling spot U. S. dollars at fixed rates of PRs 4.7775 per US$1 and buying spot dollars at PRs 4.7619 per U S $ 1; these rates corresponded to pre-August 15 rates for the U. S. dollar. The Bank would deal in sterling with authorized dealers at rates based on New Y o rk quotations; previously, the Bank had quoted fixed rates for sterling. October 18. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to certain cash donations received in foreign exchange for relief and rehabilitation in East Pakistan. October 18. The annual exchange allocations for Haj travel were announced. F or travel by air and first class by sea, bonus vouchers had to be surrendered. F or second-class travel by sea, exchange could be obtained at the cash-cum-bonus rate, while for third-class travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A K I S T AN November by sea, exchange cou ld be purchased at the official rate. November 24. Prohibitions were introduced on the export of specified metal manufactures and animal and food products other than to Afghanistan. 24. The period of validity of bonus vouchers was extended from 21 days to 42 days. November 27. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to inward remittances of foreign exchange for services provided abroad by Pakistani engineers and consultants. November 30. Payment of foreign port charges and specified freight charges was made subject to surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of remit­ tances in respect of the reshipment of frustrated cargo. December 5. The period of validity of bonus vouchers was extended from 42 days to 90 days. December 6. The Central Government undertook to buy during the period to February 6, 1972 export bonus vouchers for spot delivery at a premium of 175 per cent. December 6. Ex is t ing regulations blocking the accounts of Indian nationals were extended to the accounts of the Indian H i gh Commission. December 9. The State Bank, while honoring out­ standing forward sterling contracts, otherwise restricted its exchange dealings to U. S. dollars. December 11. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to inward remittances for the Na t ional Defense Fund. December 18. A ll permits and approvals for remit­ tances issued by the offices of the State Bank in East Pakistan were declared inva l id. December 20. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained and there were no changes in exchange regulations and practices. December 29. The 45 per cent bonus was extended to foreign exchange received as management fees for services rendered abroad by Pakistanis. December 30. Bonus vouchers issued in East Pakistan without authentication by a State Bank office in West Pakistan were deemed inva l id. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa. Panama has established a central rate of B 1.00 = US$1 and does not avail itself of wider margins. U. S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based mainly on New Y o rk market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, edu­ cational, medical, or informational purposes. On Novem­ ber 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u nd Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the M i n­ istry of Industry and Commerce and the M in i s t ry of Agr icu l ture; import policy is made in consultation with the Committee of Adjustments, on which the Govern­ ment, producers, and consumers are represented. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regu­ lation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Pana­ manian Government. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by one of the Ministries mentioned above. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodi­ ties that compete with national production and on cer­ tain exports; the Ministries of Industry and Commerce and Agriculture determine the import quotas for com­ modities that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama. Prescription of Currency dise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur­ chased for travelers commencing their journey in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Three foreign- supervised banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are sub­ ject to license if made by residents other than the mone­ tary authorities; import and export licenses are issued freely by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are sub­ ject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U. S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of V2 per cent. No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Changes during 1971 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 6 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on imports of all dutiable goods other than speci­ fied foodstuffs, for which the rate is 3M> per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchan­ 340 Du r ing the year, a number of import items were removed from the restricted list and could be imported freely. January 9. An Industrial Investment Incentives L aw (Decree-Law N o. 413 of December 30, 1970) was promulgated. August 16. The par value and the existing effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar were maintained. August 24. Cabinet Decision N o. 172 modified the Industrial Investment Incentives L aw. Am o ng the changes was an obligation for government agencies and other public sector agencies to purchase domestic products, provided their quality was acceptable and their price did not exceed that of foreign products by more than 20 per cent (50 per cent for agricultural commodities). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 30. Cabinet Decision N o. 211 imposed a travel tax of 4 per cent on the cost of air and sea travel tickets bought in Panama or purchased for travelers commencing their journey in Panama. December 24. A central rate of B 1 per US$1 was established. Panama d id not avail itself of wider margins. The central rate represented maintenance of the existing exchange rate for the balboa in terms of the U. S. dollar. P A N A MA 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On M a r ch 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para­ guayan Gua rani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange trans­ actions take place at free market rates, which since October 1960 have been pegged at 0 123.60 and 0 126.00 per U S $ 1, buying and selling. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0 126.00 per US $ 1. A ll purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through author­ ized commercial banks, except those related to govern­ ment payments for imports and services, wh ich are carried out through the Central Bank. A ll purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1 per cent, except transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat packing plants; and transactions relating to investments in Paraguay that are covered by L aw N o. 216 of November 9, 1970. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on a ll sales of foreign exchange. A tolerated parallel market exists in which the buying rate for the U. S. dollar was about 0 142 on December 31, 1971. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts in specified cur­ rencies 1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U. S. dollars .2 Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency require­ ments. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Ch i le, Mex ico, and Peru may be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other cen­ tral banks concerned maintain with each other, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited .3 A ll a Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The termination of the payments agreement with Spain was agreed upon in 1971, but at the end of the year it was still in force. 3 These include certain agricultural products, depending on the season, certain petroleum products, cement, and certain wire and wire products. 342 other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made after the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for, inter alia, public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, fuel and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery, agricultural equipment, wheat, and news­ print from any source, imports from neighboring coun­ tries (including U rugu ay ), and imports from other L A F TA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the Na t ional L i s t ). Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in L A F TA countries and included in the Paraguayan Na t ional L i st the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other L A F TA goods (mainly pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fu el derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighbor­ ing countries, including Uruguay). There is an addi­ tional surcharge of 5 per cent (resulting in a total sur­ charge of 41 per cent) on imports from a ll sources of radios and record players and their parts and acces­ sories. Commodities that are exempt from surcharge generally are also exempt from advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clear­ ance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the pr inc ipal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for religious, charitable, cu l tura l, or educational purposes; imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Span­ ish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the Na t ional Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under the new Cap i tal Investment L aw N o. 216. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff sur­ charge is levied on certain imports by virtue of L aw N o. 1334/67, wh ich implemented Decree-Law N o. 451 of M a r ch 31, 1967, and L aw N o. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is 12-24 per cent (8-16 per cent for certain goods subject to L A F TA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for imports from neighboring countries and the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other coun­ tries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes; imports under Cap i tal Investment L aw N o. 216; and a ll imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax L aw. Imports that are considered to be of a luxury or nonessential char­ acter are subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of L aw N o. 69 /68. In addition to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports: a consular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of IV2 per cent, from wh ich wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of wh ich go to the Institute of Technology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construction materials are subject to an additional cus­ toms surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Hous ing and Urban iza t ion. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. Th is approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain arrears have arisen from time to time as a result of periodic releases of foreign exchange to the private commercial banks by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Au thor ized banks may sell exchange freely for speci­ fied current invisibles, provided that appropriate docu­ mentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each tr ip: the equivalent of US$150 for Argentina, Bo l iv i a, B r a z i l, and Uruguay; of US$300 for other L a t in Ame r ican countries and of US$1 ,000 for a ll other countries. Banks may also sell exchange for l iv ing expenses of students abroad (including tuition) in amounts gen­ erally up to US$200 a month. App l ica t ions for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. Trav­ elers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs are subject to an annual quota that is being reduced gradually. Certain exports require licenses in order to assure domestic supplies. A ll other exports are free of license but require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards. The proceeds of exports must be collected w i th in 180 days after comple­ tion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an authorized commercial bank; there are no legal sanc­ tions for noncompliance with this requirement unless P A R A G U AY this is notified to the Central Bank by the Superintend­ ency of Banks. F or a ll exports minimum surrender prices (aforos) are established; export proceeds corre­ sponding to these prices, on which any fiscal charges are based, should be surrendered. Advance receipts of export proceeds must be sold to authorized banks. P ro­ ducers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies of IV2 per cent, 5 per cent, or l>k per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. Exports of meat prod­ ucts are exempt, but a single tax of 0 515 per head of cattle slaughtered is levied on the meat processing plants. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized banks, but there is no sanction on noncom­ pliance. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital A ll inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Au thor ized banks may grant exchange freely for contractual capital transfers, sub­ ject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. L aw N o. 216 of November 9, 1970, the Cap i tal Investment L aw, empowers the Gov­ ernment to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. Cap i tal imported under L aw N o. 216 may be retransferred in install­ ments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law N o. 18 of 1952 provides that the Cen­ tral Bank may determine the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired from the Central Bank or insti­ tutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In prac­ tice residents may freely purchase and sell gold in the form of jewelry. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the pr ior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted to residents other than banks and industrial users. Changes during 1971 January 22. Central Bank Resolution N o. 10 revised the regulations on advance repatriation of export pro­ ceeds (divisas anticipadas). Exporters could no longer 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A R A G U AY pay for imports w i th the proceeds of export prepay­ ments. A ny exchange received by exporters for future exports had to be sold to authorized banks. March 24. Decree-Law N o. 43 provided that in p r in­ ciple at least 50 per cent of Paraguay's international trade by river or sea had to be carried in Paraguayan ships. These provisions were not applicable to trade w i th L A F TA countries. July 20, Central Bank Resolution N o. 4 increased the 32 per cent surcharge on imports to 36 per cent. August 23. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at 0 123.60 and0 126.00 per U S $ 1. September 23. A reciprocal credit agreement with Co lomb ia was signed. It came into operation in Janu­ ary 1972. November 24. Decree N o. 23011 abolished export taxes for some commodities and reduced them for others. December 20. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at 0 123.60 and0 126.00 per U S $ 1. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fixed exchange rates, an exchange"cer—* tificat^maTkef ra1F*appTyirig to a ll trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, including the p r in­ cipal capital movements, and a draft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. The for­ eign exchange requirements of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate market. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru in _ U. S. dollars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. Generally, no exchange certificates are issued against export proceeds surrendered by the pub l ic sector, nor are certificates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since normally the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct from and to government agencies at the certificate rate. When approved appli­ cations for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. A ll foreign exchange receipts that are not required to be surrendered at the certificate rate must be sold in the draft market, in which only the Banco de la N a t i on and its author­ ized agents operate. Access to the draft market is controlled and purchases of foreign exchange are permitted only for specified payments not eligible for exchange at the certificate rate. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of % of 1 per cent on certificate sales and a commis­ sion of % of 1 per cent, buying and selling, on trans­ actions in the draft market. On December 31, 1971 the certificate market rate was S /. 38.70 per US$1 and the draft market rate was S /. 43.38 buying, and S /. 43.50 selling, per U S $ 1. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most out­ ward remittances. Peru formally accepted the obligations of A r t i­ cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Fo r­ eign Trade in the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank controls the use of certifi­ cates for import payments. It also authorizes the use of certificates for nontrade transactions; for profit remittances by branches of foreign companies, pr ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance must be obtained in addition. A ll imports of, and most payments for services by, the pub l ic sector require the approval of the Board for Foreign Transactions for the Pub l ic Sector and a resolution of the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance; a similar Board for Foreign Transactions for the Private Sector prepares an annual foreign exchange budget for the private sector. Mo re­ over, imports by the industrial, agricultural, and fishery sectors require the prior authorization of the ministry responsible for the sector concerned. Most borrowing abroad by the public sector as well as borrowing abroad with a government guarantee by the private sector are subject to prior approval by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance, upon favorable recommendation by the Na t ional Planning Institute and the Permanent Commission on Ex ternal Credits in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies; exchange certificates at present are only issued in U. S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars, wh ich have been established under bilateral payments agreements. No other prescription of cur­ rency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bo l iv i a, B r a z i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mex ico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of consumer goods that are considered nonessential is prohibited from any source other than L A F TA countries. Moreover, the import of a large number of manufactures included in the Na t ional Register of Manufactured Products requires the approval of the customs authorities, wh ich is granted only in exceptional circumstances. Private sector imports must take place within the foreign cur­ rency quota allocated to each importer by the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector. Pub l ic sector agencies, however, may not place import orders without the pr ior approval of the Commission on Exter­ nal Transactions and the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. Certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by, or within quotas set by, the Pub l ic Company for Ag r icu l tu ral Services (EPSA ), and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives only by Petroperu, a government agency. Certain indus- 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU t r i al r aw m a t e r i a ls m ay be im p o r t ed o n ly by the N a t i o n al E n t e r p r i se f or I n d u s t r i al M a r k e t i ng ( E N C I ). T he use of ce r t i f ica tes f or im p o rt p a ym en ts r e q u i r es the p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i on of the C e n t r al R e s e r ve B a n k, w h i ch p r o v i d es the f o r e i gn exchange to the c o m m e r c i al b a n ks aga inst d e l i v e ry of the ce r t i f ica tes. T he c o m m e r c i al b a n ks mu st p resent ev id en ce that the en t i re am o u nt rep re sen ted by the ce r t i f ica tes w i ll be u sed f or the im p o r t a t i on of m e r c h a n d i s e. Im p o r t s, w h e t h er m a de u n d er d o c um e n t a ry le t ters of c r e d it or on a d o c u­ m e n t a ry c o l l e c t i on bas is, m ay be p a id w i th ce r t i f ica tes. T he r e l a t ive s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts a nd the b i ll of l a d­ i ng mu st be f o rw a r d ed to a c omm e r c i al b a nk a nd p re sen ted to the C e n t r al R e s e rve B a nk for r eg i s t r a­ t i on a nd v a l i d a t i o n. S u bm i s s i on of im p o rt con t r a c ts or o ther ev id en ce s u p p o r t i ng the t r a n s a c t i on is r e q u i r ed f or adv an ce im p o rt p aym en ts w h en the s h i p p i ng d o c u­ men ts are not a v a i l a b l e; in a d d i t i o n, the i n t e rm e d i a ry b a nk mu st depos it w i th the C e n t r al R e s e r ve B a nk the l o c al c u r r e n cy c o u n t e r p a rt of the f .o .b. v a l ue of the im p o r t, a nd the depos it is f o r f e i t ed to the C e n t r al R e s e rve B a nk if the r e q u i r ed s h i p p i ng d o c um e n ts are not subm i t t ed w i t h in 30 days f o l l o w i ng the u t i l i z a t i on of the f o r e i gn exchange. A m a r i t ime f re ight t ax of 4 p er cent of the o c e an f re ight cha rges is l e v i ed on goods im p o r t ed by sea o ther t h an c e r t a in a g r i c u l t u r al a nd m e d i c al p r o d u c t s, b o o k s, a nd c o i n s. P u b l ic sec tor im p o r ts mu st in p r i n c i p le be s h i p p ed in P e r u v i an ves­ sels. M o st im p o r ts are sub ject to an im p o rt su r ch a rge of 10 p er cent of the c . i . f. v a l u e. Payments for Invisibles A u t h o r i z a t i on is r e q u i r ed in o r d er to p ay f or i n v i s i­ b les w i th ce r t i f ica tes or at the ce r t i f ica te ra te. T he t rans­ a c t ions in i n v i s i b l es that are e l i g i b le f or the ce r t i f ica te m a r k et i n c l u de gov e rnm ent p a ym e n t s, p ro f it r em i t­ tances by f o r e i gn c om p a n i es o p e r a t i ng in P e r u, d i v i d e nd r em i t t an c es to f o r e i gn sha reho lde rs ( p r o v i d ed that the o r i g i n al inve s tment t o ok p l a ce after M ay 15, 1970 at the ce r t i f ica te ra te ), in terest p a ym e n ts on those lo ans f or w h i ch am o r t i z a t i on m ay be t r an s f e r r ed t h r o u gh the ce r t i f ica te m a r k e t, r em u n e r a t i on of t e c h n i c i a ns h i r ed a b r o a d, a nd o ther c o n t r a c t u al o b l i g a t i o ns e i t h ef a l r e a dy c o n t r a c t ed or to be c o n t r a c t ed in the fu tu re. R em i t t a n c es of net p ro f i t s, i n c l u d i ng d e p l e t i on a nd d e p r e c i a t i on a l l ow a n c e s, r e q u i re a r e s o l u t i on of the M i n i s t ry of E c o n o my a nd F i n a n c e, a p r i or tax c l e a r­ ance, a nd the v i sa of the C e n t r al R e s e r ve B a n k. M o r e­ ov e r, n ew f o r e i gn inve s tmen ts must be reg is te red w i th the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t ry a nd C o m m e r ce to have access to the ce r t i f ica te m a r k et f or p ro f it r em i t t an c es a nd to en joy t ax in c en t iv es u n d er P e r u 's i n c e n t i ve l aw s. F i n a l l y, rem i t tances of prof i ts on f o r e i gn c a p i t al inv e s t ed in P e ru are l im i t ed to 14 p er cent a y e a r. E x c h a n ge f or p aym en ts that are not e l i g i b le f or exchange cer t if ica tes mu st be o b t a i n ed in the d ra ft m a r k e t, subject to the p r i or a u t h o r i z a t i on of the B a n co de la N a t i o n. F or p aym e n ts in respect of a 3 46 l a rge n um b er of c u r r e nt i n v i s i b l es the sale of f o r e i gn exchange is a u t h o r i z ed f ree ly, e i ther by the B a n co de la N a c i on or its agents, p r o v i d ed ev id en ce is p resen ted that genu ine c u r r e nt p aym en ts are i n v o l v e d. Th e se cate­ go r ies i n c l u de in te rest on loans f or w h i ch am o r t i z a t i on p aym en ts are p e rm i t t ed to be t r an s f e r r ed t h r o u gh the d ra ft m a r k e t, a nd p aym en ts f or r o y a l t i e s, pa ten ts, t r a d em a r k s, r e n t al i n c om e, pen s ion s, a nd c omm i s s i o n s. F or c e r t a in o ther p aym en ts ba s ic a l l o c a t i o ns h ave been e s tab l i shed up to w h i ch f o r e i gn ex ch ange is s o ld f ree ly. Th e se ca tego r ies i n c l u de expenses a b r o ad conn e c t ed w i th tou r i st a nd bus iness t r a v e l, s tudy, a nd f a m i ly m a i n­ tenance. T he ba s ic l i m it up to w h i ch f o r e i gn exchange for tou r i st t r a v el m ay be s o ld is the e q u i v a l e nt of S /. 1,000 a p e r s on a d ay f or a m a x i m um of 30 days in a ny one c a l e n d ar y e ar f or t r a v el to a L a t in A m e r i c an c o u n t r y, a nd of S /. 1,200 a p e r s on a d ay f or the same m a x i m um p e r i od to o ther c o u n t r i e s. T he B a n co de la N a c i on fixes b a s ic m a x i m um amoun ts of f o r e i gn exchange w h i ch m ay be p u r c h a s ed a n n u a l ly by each e l i g i b le c om p a ny for business t r a v el a b r o ad by its offi­ c i a l s. W i t h in e a ch i n d i v i d u al c om p a ny q u o ta the bas ic d a i ly l i m it f or e a ch o f f ic ial v a r i es a c c o r d i ng to the im p o r t a n ce of r a nk h e l d, as f o l l o w s: for p res iden ts, gen­ e r al manage r s, a nd m emb e rs of ex e cu t ive bo a rds up to the e q u i v a l e nt of S /. 2 , 2 0 0; f or execu t ives up to the equ iv a l ent of S /. 1,700, a nd for emp loyees up to the equ iv a l ent of S /. 1,300. An a d d i t i o n al am o u nt of up to the e q u i v a l e nt of S /. 2 0 , 0 00 a t r ip m ay be s o ld to the first c a t ego ry of o f f ic ia ls f or r ep r e s en t a t ion expenses a b r o a d. T h e re is a t r a v el tax, w h i ch takes the f o rm of a t ax on a t r av e l e r 's a c q u i s i t i on of goods a nd serv ices a b r o ad ( i n c l u d i ng the cost of passages a nd fa res) of 10 p er cent on amoun ts up to the d a i ly l im i ts spec if ied above, a nd of 50 p er cent on a ny amoun ts in excess of these l im i t s; the m i n i m um am o u nt p a y a b le is S /. 50 a d ay f or e a ch d ay spent a b r o a d. E x e m pt are res iden ts t r a v e l i ng on o f f i c i al bus iness a nd f o r e i gn d i p l om a t s. T he tax is p a id p r i or to depa r tu re on the bas is of a sw o rn d e c l a r a t i on s p e c i f y i ng sepa ra te ly, the am o u nt of the fa re, the v a l ue of a n t i c i p a t ed serv ices to be r e c e iv ed, a nd d a i ly expenses. A ir a nd sea passages are in a d d i t i on subject to a 5 per cent s tamp tax. T he e x p o rt of dome s­ t ic c u r r e n cy in excess of S /. 1,000 by t rave le rs is p r o h i b i t e d. Exports and Export Proceeds T he B a n co M i n e ro d el P e ru has a m o n o p o ly ov er the expo rt of p r e c i o us me ta l s, u n c ut p r e c i o us stones, and pea r l s, a nd the Em p r e sa M i n e ra d el P e ru has a m o n o p o ly ov er a ll o th er m i n e r al expo r t s. A ll expo r ts are subject to l icen se to assure the necessa ry s u p p ly of e x p o rt p r o­ ceeds to the ce r t i f ica te m a r k e t. E x p o rt p roceeds must be r e c e i v ed in U. S. d o l l a r s. T r a d i t i o n al expo r ts mu st be s o ld aga inst an i r r e v o c a b le le t ter of c r e d it c o n f i rm ed by a b a nk e s tab l i shed in P e r u; the la t ter mu st su r render the f o r e i gn exchange p ro c e eds w i t h in ten w o r k i ng days of p a ym e n t. In s p e c i al cases, a nd w i th the a u t h o r i z a t i on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received w i th in 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional exports are granted transferable tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value (18 per cent when the goods are shipped in Peruvian vessels). These certifi­ cates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Pub l ic sector entities must surrender their fu ll receipts at the certificate rate. A ll other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the draft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S /. 1,000 in Peruvian currency. Capital A ll outward capital transfers require pr ior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans contracted by the private sector, provided that the for­ eign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surren­ dered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organi­ zations, and for payments of debts guaranteed by the State. The proceeds of a ll foreign loans received after June 17, 1971 must be converted in the certificate market; amortization and service payments in respect of these loans also are settled through the certificate market. Payments in connection with a ll other loans must be transferred through the draft market. Foreign investment in Peru is governed by Decree- Law N o. 18900 of June 30, 1971, which ratified the Andean Common Market's policy on the treatment of foreign capital, and by Decree-Law N o. 18999 of October 19, 1971 which implemented that policy for most types of activity. A ll foreign investment in Peru requires the prior approval of the competent authorities with a view to channeling such investments to projects considered essential for the country's develop­ ment. If they wish to enjoy for their products the advan­ tages deriving from the duty-free program of the Car­ tagena Agreement, foreign companies incorporated in Peru as at December 30, 1970, have to agree, within a period of 3 years, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to transfer them to mixed or national companies during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. F or this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least P E RU 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national inves­ tors. Upon expiration of the 3-year period, the par­ ticipation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participation must increase to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru as at January 1, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries and in those which export at least 80 per cent of their produc­ tion to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the gradual transfer requirement to mixed companies. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General M i n i ng L aw (Decree-Law N o. 18880) of June 8, 1971, which replaced the M i n i ng Code of M ay 12, 1950. Companies holding mining concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government providing for special incentives and guarantees or constituting mixed enterprises with government participation of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of mining contracts, the Government may grant to mining concessionaires initiating large-scale investment programs tax incen­ tives and guaranteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers of (a) recovery of investment; (b) interest payments if the rate does not exceed 3 per cent above the prime rate in the financial market from which the loans originate; (c) payments for justified services; and (d) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. M ix ed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special con­ tract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form in Peru. A ll imports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. Exchange is made available only for imports of gold bars by the monetary authorities and by authorized industrial and professional users. The import and export of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco M ine ro del Peru. Changes during 1971 January 19. Decree-Law N o. 18737 entered into effect. It amplified certain provisions of Decree-Law N o. 18275 of M ay 15, 1970 which had introduced comprehensive exchange control measures in the draft market. The Banco de la N a t i on was authorized to permit the opening of foreign exchange accounts by nonresident individuals and firms. Such accounts could be credited only with funds originating from abroad and with interest accruing on any outstanding balances. The Central Reserve Bank and the Banco de la N a t i on were authorized to permit Peruvian credit institutions to maintain foreign exchange accounts to the extent 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU that such accounts were required to carry out foreign exchange transactions in the exchange certificate and draft markets. A ll documents pertaining to investments and foreign exchange holdings of Peruvian nationals abroad had to be deposited with the Banco de la N a t i on within 30 days from January 19. January 20. Supreme Decree N o. 004-71-EF of Janu­ ary 19 became effective; it implemented Decree-Law N o. 18275 of M ay 15, 1970, which had reorganized the operation of the draft market. Conditions were outlined in detail under which foreign exchange could be sold by the Banco de la N a t i on or its agents for a large number of payments for cur­ rent invisibles. The Decree transferred from the Exchange Committee established by Decree-Law N o. 18275 to the Banco de la N a t i on the power to authorize the sale of exchange in excess of standard allocations in exceptional cases. It also defined the con­ ditions under which the proceeds of the sales of assets owned in Peru by nonresident physical persons could be transferred abroad. Tax clearance was made a prerequisite for obtaining exchange in a large number of cases. The Decree further specified that claims in foreign exchange accruing to natural or jur id ical per­ sons residing in Peru had to be declared at the Banco de la N a t i on within 15 days of their accrual. A ll foreign exchange receipts from abroad derived from services rendered, income from investments, and other transactions not channeled through the exchange certi­ ficate market had to be sold to the Banco de la N a t i on within 10 days of receipt; this did not apply, however, to those individuals and companies allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts with the Banco de la N a t i o n. Jur id ical persons established in Peru and regularly requiring or receiving foreign exchange outside the certificate market had to submit annually to the Banco de la N a t i on an estimate of their expected requirements or receipts; if they failed to do so, the Banco de la N a t i on was released from the obligation to consider their applications for foreign exchange. The Decree also defined resident status of ind i­ viduals and companies for purposes of the regulations governing the draft market. It established for exchange control purposes the provisions that legal residence abroad for at least two years was required before Peruvian nationals could be considered nonresidents; Peruvians acquiring foreign nationality would during that two-year period remain subject, therefore, to the same exchange control treatment as Peruvian nationals. Restrictions were imposed on payments for certain cur­ rent invisibles that previously were unrestricted; certain existing restrictions were intensified. Detailed provisions of the Decree included the following: The allocation for tourist travel was set at the equivalent of S /. 1,500 a person a day, subject to a maximum of S /. 90,000 a person a calendar year, and that for business travel at S /. 2,200 a day for company directors (plus S /. 20,000 a trip for repre­ 348 sentation expenses), S /. 1,700 a day for executives, and S /. 1,300 a day for other employees. Exchange alloca­ tions for a ll travel were subject to pr ior payment of the travel tax. Previously, there was a general travel alloca­ tion of S /. 1,800 a person a day, for up to 60 days in any one calendar year, as we ll as an additional allocation of S /. 8,000 a person, which could only be taken up once a year. Foreign nationals leaving Peru permanently could henceforth purchase the equivalent of S /. 1.5 m i l l ion in foreign currency, provided that they could prove the source of their income; any balance remaining over this l im it had to be deposited at the Banco de la N a t i on and would be remittable in annual installments, the size of which would be deter­ mined on the merits of each individual case. Residents of foreign nationality could remit the equivalent of up to S /. 50,000 a year to dependents l iv ing abroad. Foreign nationals receiving their pay in soles could remit up to 50 per cent of their income for payment of social insurance contributions and pension funds, and for the payment of proved debts and obligations; if such remittances were made, however, they could not purchase foreign exchange for any other purpose within the same calendar year. Foreign nationals apply­ ing for foreign exchange for tourist or business travel received the same treatment as Peruvian residents, unless they held a current account in foreign currency at the Banco de la N a t i o n, in which case they were not entitled to purchase foreign exchange for travel or any type of personal remittance. No exchange would be granted for the transfer of pensions of former c iv il servants who without official permission resided abroad. January 26. Regulations issued under the Organic Law of the Ag r icu l tu ral Sector by Supreme Decree N o. 20 -71 -AG introduced a system of import licensing operated by the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture for the im­ ports of the agricultural sector. 26. Supreme Decree N o. 001-71-IC-DS regulated Decree-Law N o. 18350 of Ju ly 27, 1970, the General Industrial L aw. A Na t ional Register of Industrial Products would be kept by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce, where all industrial firms were required to reregister. Industrial firms were to use Peruvian capital goods and materials whenever avail­ able, and required prior approval for a ll imports. The time l im it stipulated in contracts signed with the State for the reversion to Peruvian control of foreign-owned industrial firms would depend on the size of the invest­ ment, the type of firm, the estimated profits, and the level of technology used. The imports of industrial firms were made subject to prior authorization on the basis of annual plans, by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. January 26. A Na t ional Register of Industrial Products was created. By virtue of A r t ic le 141 of L aw N o. 18350, commodities listed in this register would not be per­ mitted to be imported except with the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Industries of the M in i s t ry of January ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Industry and Commerce or, by delegation, the approval of the Customs Adm in is tra t ion. (Many commodities were so registered in 1971 and in the early part of 1972.) January 27. Decree-Law N o. 18748 provided defini­ tions of national and foreign investors and companies. It classified as foreign investors those persons who con­ tribute capital to a company from abroad w i th the right to repatriate the capital and to transfer earnings abroad; owners of local currency funds derived from the reinvestment of capital that could be remitted abroad were also classified as foreign investors. Foreign companies were defined as those in which national investors held less than 51 per cent of the company's capital, and mixed companies as those in which national investors held between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital. Na t ional investors were considered to be the Government and its agencies, national com­ panies, employees' associations, other Peruvian-owned institutions, and individual nationals resident in Peru; foreign nationals who had maintained uninterrupted residence in Peru for one year could also be classified as national investors, provided that they renounced the right to re-export capital and transfer profits abroad. National companies were those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital was held by national investors. March 9. Decree-Law N o. 18802 provided that the State would guarantee the exchange risk involved in external borrowing operations by the public sector. Such borrowing and the giving of guarantees on foreign borrowing henceforth required prior approval by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. March 26. The General Fisheries L aw (Decree-Law N o. 18810 of M a r ch 25) became effective. The fishing industry was divided into three priority categories. Foreign companies classified in the first category (i.e., engaged in fishing for direct human consumption) would be treated as national companies, but a ll other foreign- owned companies in the industry were required to sign contracts with the State within 180 days, stating the date by which 51 per cent of their capital would be transferred to Peruvian investors. April 2. Decree N o. 106-71-AG permitted the unre­ stricted sale of all forms of coffee in the domestic market. April 11. Decree-Law N o. 18826 extended until July 31, 1971 the date by which companies must, under the terms of the General Industrial Law, declare to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce the extent of for­ eign participation in their capital and sign contracts with the Government. The deadline was further extended to December 31, 1971 by Decree-Law N o. 18895 of June 23. May 18. Decree-Law N o. 18858 restricted further the granting of loans by local banks and other financial or credit institutions to firms with foreign equity participa­ tion of 20 per cent or more. The total amount of such credits with less than a one-year maturity could not P E RU exceed the capital and retained earnings of the bor­ rower. Loans for longer periods could be granted only to finance new investment projects and could not exceed three times the value of the loca l ly owned equity hold­ ing. Discounts of local firms' trade bills were excluded from these limitations. May 25. Decree-Law N o. 18865 replaced the existing tax on the sale of exchange for foreign travel w i th a tax on a traveler's consumption of goods and services abroad. The tax was to be applied to the value of goods and services acquired abroad gratuitously, against pay­ ment, or in exchange for a traveler's goods and services. It was to be paid by residents prior to departure on the basis of a sworn declaration specifying, separately, the amount of the fare, the value of anticipated services to be received, and the amount of daily expenses; any excess or deficiency was to be settled upon return on the basis of a final declaration of expenses. The rate of tax remained unchanged (at 10 per cent on amounts within the daily allocations and 50 per cent on amounts in excess of those allocations), but the coverage was broadened to include the cost of passages, whether pur­ chased in Peru or abroad and whether settled in foreign or domestic currency, and the minimum amount of tax was set at S /. 50 a day for the period spent abroad. June 8. Supreme Decree N o. 064-71-EF became effec­ tive. It modified certain provisions of Supreme Decree N o. 004-71-EF (see January 20, above). The require­ ment was removed that exceptional circumstances had to be involved before the Banco de la N a t i on could authorize the sale of foreign exchange in excess of established limits for those categories of invisibles for which basic limits were fixed. The condition of a pr ior tax clearance was removed for the sale of exchange for amortization and interest payments on foreign loans, payments of insurance and reinsurance premiums, and expenses for foreign travel. A l s o, the condition under which foreign exchange was sold for the payment of correspondence courses abroad was changed; hence­ forth, such exchange would be sold provided a prior authorization of the M in is t ry of Education had been obtained for such study. June 8. A new General M i n i ng L aw (Decree-Law N o. 18880) was published, to become effective 120 days after the date of its publication and to replace the M i n­ ing Code of M ay 12, 1950. It consolidated and elabo­ rated the main principles of existing m in ing legislation as modified in A p r il 1970. The Empresa M ine ra del Peru would by October 14, 1971 be granted a complete monopoly over mineral exports, with the exception that joint-venture companies were permitted to negotiate long-term supply contracts abroad in order to obtain financing. June 17. Decree-Law N o. 18882 required residents traveling to noncontiguous countries to declare a ll items of personal jewelry valued at over S /. 50,000 ( S /. 15,000 for bordering countries) and to exhibit them on return. The Government assumed the exclusive right to trade 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P E RU in precious metals, uncut precious stones, and pearls, but the Decree-Law granted the Banco M ine ro del Peru a marketing monopoly, as authorized agent of the Gov­ ernment, for the purchase wholesale of such commodi­ ties and for their export and import. Resident physical and jur id ical persons had to declare to the Banco M ine ro within 30 days their holdings of, or rights to, the commodities mentioned, whether they were situated in Peru or abroad. Residents of foreign nationality who had resided in Peru for less than 10 years could apply for a waiver from this registration requirement. June 17. Decree-Law N o. 18891 modified certain pro­ visions of Decree-Law N o. 17710 and Supreme Decree N o. 150-69-EF regarding the operation of the certificate market. F or purposes of complying with the surrender requirement, exporters could deduct from the f.o.b. value of their export proceeds specified percentages for commissions and other established charges incurred abroad. Henceforth, a ll exchange receipts from foreign loans and from private bond issues abroad had to be surrendered in the certificate market; previously, foreign exchange in respect of the above transactions was chan­ neled through the certificate market only if service pay­ ments for such obligations were to be made through that market. Service payments for the refinancing of specified obligations contracted prior to the re- establishment of the dual market (October 1967) could be made through the certificate market. June 17. Supreme Decree N o. 088-71-EF modified certain other provisions of Decree-Law N o. 17710 and the regulation implementing this law (Supreme Decree N o. 150-69-EF). Procedures for the sale of foreign exchange through the certificate market for salaries of foreign technicians were restated. Certain prior require­ ments for the sale of such exchange were removed; these related to the observance of a maximum participa­ tion of foreign technicians in both the employment of and the wage b i ll of Peruvian companies. Interest pay­ ments on foreign loans, including import financing, could not exceed the rates prevailing for the same type of operations in the country of the lender; previously, interest payments for import financing could be up to 3 per cent above the prime rate in the market front- where the financing originated. The use of foreign exchange certificates for import payments was made subject to the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. In the case of advance import payments without shipping documents, submission of contracts or other documents supporting the transaction was required, and the bank had to deposit with the Central Reserve Bank the local currency counterpart of the f.o.b. value of the import; the deposit was to be taken over by the Central Reserve Bank if the required shipping documents were not submitted w i th in 30 days after the utilization of the foreign exchange. The surrender requirements for the proceeds from nontraditional exports were eased by allowing the exporter to deduct 8 per cent of the f.o.b. value for commissions. 350 June 22. The deadline for the registration of foreign companies operating in Peru, set for July 31, 1971, was extended to December 31, 1971 (see A p r il 11, above). June 25. Regulations issued under the General F i sh­ eries L aw by Supreme Decree N o. 011-71-PE made the imports of firms in the fisheries sector subject to prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Fisheries on the basis of annual plans. June 30. Decree-Law N o. 18900 ratified the Andean Group's Cartagena Agreement on the treatment of for­ eign capital and with minor modifications amended Peruvian legislation in accordance with Decisions 24 and 37 of the Cartagena Agreement. A ll foreign invest­ ment in Peru required the pr ior approval of the com­ petent authorities with a view to channeling such invest­ ments to projects considered essential for the country's development. The Decree-Law modified the provisions of the General Industrial Law (N o. 18350) of July 1970 which required existing foreign companies to reduce the share of foreign capital participation to specified per­ centages; foreign companies incorporated in Peru before June 30, 1971 now had to agree, w i th in 3 years, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to transfer them to mixed or national companies (for definitions see January 27, above) during a maximum period of 15 years following the entry into effect of this regime. U p on expiration of the 3-year period, the participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise had to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participation had to increase to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru as at January 1, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors had to be secured at the time of the initiation of pro­ duction. Foreign investments in basic industries (e.g., mining, forestry, and petroleum), and in those exporting at least 80 per cent of their production to countries out­ side the Andean Common Marke t, were exempt from the requirement of gradual transfer to mixed com­ panies. Implementing regulations were to be issued w i th in 30 days. June 30. In accordance w i th Decree-Law N o. 18900, transfers of profits on foreign capital were limited to 14 per cent a year. August 17. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on August 25. August 17. Decree-Law N o. 18930 granted Petro- peru, a government agency, a monopoly over the import of crude o il and derivatives. August 25. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar in the certificate market was maintained unchanged at S /. 38.70 = U S $ 1, buying and selling, and that in the draft market also was unchanged at S /. 43.38 buying, and S /. 43.50 selling, per U. S. dollar. October 19. Decree-Law N o. 18999 regulated the exe­ cution of Decree-Law N o. 18900 of June 30 (see above) by amending further the General Industrial L aw and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November modifying the Fisheries L aw so as to conform w i th the Andean Group's Decisions No s. 24 and 37. Industrial and fishing companies w i th foreign capital had to declare to the competent authorities, by December 31, 1971, the extent of their foreign involvement (both direct investment and reinvestments) as at June 30, 1971; similarly, a ll their contracts for the importation or use of technology, trademarks, patents, and licenses valid as at Ju ly 1, 1971 had to be declared to the M in is try of Commerce and Industry (they were to remain in effect unless the M in i s t ry decided otherwise). The Decree stipulated that foreign industrial and fishing companies wh ich had already entered into contracts with the Government providing for a more accelerated transfer to national or mixed companies and /or for more important national ownership in their companies than specified by Decree-Law N o. 18900 were to abide by the provisions of such existing contracts. Foreign-owned companies that did not export, or that exported 80 per cent or more of their production to countries outside the Andean G roup, were not required to sell the major­ ity of their shares to Peruvians. The Decree-Law also set out new methods to guarantee payments for foreign capital sold to national interests. 9. Decree-Law N o. 19023 created the Na t ional Enterprise for Industrial Ma rke t ing (Empresa Nac ional de C om e r c i a l i z a c i o n —ENC I ). It wou ld be responsible for the marketing of essential industrial products. November 11. Decree-Law N o. 19028 provided for the establishment w i th in 15 days of a Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector. The Board's main functions were to prepare annually a foreign exchange budget for the private sector (in accordance with the priorities set forth in the Development Plan) and to establish the annual amounts up to which individual private sector importers could import. A ll private ind i­ viduals and companies would be required to submit to the Central Reserve Bank and the Banco de la N a t i o n, on a date to be established by the Board, a statement of their foreign currency needs, specified as to certificate market and draft market. Private importers were event­ ually to receive a nontransferable import card on which would be stated the total annual amounts of foreign exchange allocated to each; these cards had to be presented to the intermediary bank, which was to reduce the importer's balance by the amount of each transac­ tion. Pending the formulation of the Board's 1972 for­ eign exchange budget, the amount of imports that could be made by individuals and companies during the next six months was to be established by the Central Reserve Bank on the basis of the monthly average recorded dur­ ing 1970 and the first half of 1971, and would be re­ corded on temporary importers' cards. 11. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel abroad was reduced and was differentiated according to destination. The new allocations were the equivalent of S /. 1,000 a day for up to 30 days for November P E RU travel to a L a t in Ame r ican country, and the equivalent of S /. 1,200 a day for the same maximum period for travel to other countries. The previous allocation was S /. 1,500 a day for a maximum of 60 days, irrespective of destination. The exchange allocations for business travel remained unchanged. November 16. Decree-Law N o. 19031 reserved to the State the sole right to import essential raw materials for industries designated as "basic" by the General Indus­ trial L aw (Decree-Law N o. 18350 of July 27, 1970); these materials included iron and steel, nonferrous metals, chemicals, fertilizers, cement, and paper. These imports were to be carried out by E N C I. November 23. Supreme Decree N o. 162-71-EF modi­ fied certain provisions of Supreme Decree N o. 004-71-EF of January 20, 1971. A definition was given of the categories of natural and ju r id ical persons entitled to purchase foreign exchange for business travel. The Banco de la N a t i on would henceforth establish a global amount for this purpose for each firm. A ll residents returning from abroad had to surrender any remaining travel exchange to the Banco de la N a t i on w i th in ten days of entry. The Decree also provided for the sale of foreign exchange by the Banco de la N a t i on to nonresidents for payments in respect of life insurance policies and various types of pensions. November 25. Decree-Law N o. 19043 brought bank­ ing into line with the Andean G roup 's Decisions 24 and 37 by establishing that new banks must be entirely locally owned, and that existing local banks that were not branches of foreign banks must have a minimum of 80 per cent Peruvian ownership w i th in 60 days. November 30. Supreme Decree N o. 168-71-EF restricted remittances to parent companies of profits, depreciation, and loan amortization by local subsidiaries to the total of freely disposable net profits and deprecia­ tion. If remittances on this basis were insufficient to repay any outstanding debt to the parent company, the Reserve Bank could advance exchange certificates up to the difference. 18. The exchange markets were closed. They reopened on December 27. December 27. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar in the certificate market was maintained at S /. 38.70 per U. S. dollar, buying and selling, and that in the draft market at S /. 43.38 buying, and S /. 43.50 selling, per U. S. dollar. December 30. Decree-Law N o. 19258 extended un t il M a r ch 31, 1972 the deadline by wh ich industrial firms must declare their foreign capital participation. In accordance with Decree-Law N o. 18425 of October 6, 1970, local insurance com­ panies' reinsurance agreements with foreign companies had to be canceled; optional reinsurance contracts could remain in force un t il December 31, 1972. A ll reinsur­ ance henceforth had to be placed with the Banco de la N a t i o n. December December 31. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Ph i l ipp ine Peso. A ll exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; since September 1970 it has kept this rate stable at P 6.435 per U S $ 1. In spot transactions w i th their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain mar­ gins. The maximum and m in imum spot buying rates are % per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The m in imum and maximum spot selling rates are % per cent and 1% per cent above the guid­ ing rate, respectively. The Central Bank, which is not governed by the Association's trading rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange w i th in the above margins required by the Association. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks quote curren­ cies other than the U. S. dollar. A large part of the interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trad ing Center ( F O R E X ), which receives a portion of its supply from the Central Bank. Different effective exchange rates arise from a stabilization tax of 8 per cent or 6 per cent on proceeds from specified major exports. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues circulars and memo­ randa to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Cer­ tain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines requires the pr ior approval of the Board of Investments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but a ll exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, F rench francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether­ lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U. S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor­ porate, without pr ior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of conversion of, properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. However, w i th­ drawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad 352 are subject to ind iv idual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may under certain circumstances maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, be low ). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Imports of certain agricultural commodities from any source are prohibited for protective reasons. There are no other quantitative restrictions on imports (other than imports of go ld ); however, payment for imports of specified commodities is subject to prior approval of the Central Bank. Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods categories (unclassified, semiun- classified, and nonessential consumer goods) or for com­ pletely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodi­ ties (wheat, raw cotton, leaf tobacco, and tallow) are permitted only if they are financed through certain offi­ c ial credit arrangements. Payments for imports of non- agricultural machinery and equipment in excess of US$50,000 a month by importers other than certified export-oriented firms are allowed only if prescribed certification from the Boa rd of Investments (BO I) has been obtained. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a documents against acceptance ( D / A) basis, or under open account ( O / A) arrangements. The use of the D /A and O /A procedures is limited to firms with a history of importing under these arrangements pr ior to Feb­ ruary 21, 1970 and to such others as may be approved on a case-by-case basis by the Cen tral Bank. Unless arrangements for such terms of credit are made, imports in excess of US$100 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not invo lv ing payments from the Philippines (so-called no-dollar imports) are allowed subject to prescribed conditions. Such permissible "no-dollar" imports are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which w i ll allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Further­ more, it is the practice of certain authorized agent banks to require a 100 per cent deposit against the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution opening of letters of credit, compared with 50 per cent in normal cases. Payments for Invisibles V i r tua l ly a ll payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. In principle, a ll other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence regarding the purpose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of for­ eign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remit­ tances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low ). Exchange for travel abroad is made available as follows: (1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an additional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to A f r i c a, No r th and South Ame r ica, Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, the M idd le East, and N ew Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for non­ business travel to Gu am, Hong K o n g, Okinawa, the Republic of Ch ina, or any other neighboring country. The following limits apply to exchange for educa­ tional expenses abroad: for studies in the Un i ted States, US$250 a month for l iv ing and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and N ew Zealand, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Remittances for educational expenses and student maintenance abroad are allowed only to stu­ dents work ing for a degree at duly accredited colleges or universities. The following limits apply for remittances to depend­ ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent l iv ing in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent l iv­ ing in other areas. The maintenance allowances for dependents are allowed only for close relatives under certain conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents are permitted in full for invest­ ments in resident companies engaged in projects approved by the Board of Investments or in export- oriented industries. Export-oriented firms whose opera­ tions include logging are certified as not fully export oriented if log exports exceed 20 per cent of total export earnings. F or such firms, net profit remittances are allowed to the extent of (a) 100 per cent of the nonresident share in net proceeds pertaining to non- logging operations and (b) 25 per cent of the nonresi­ dent share of net profits pertaining to logging opera­ PH IL IPP INES tions. F or other industries, remittances of profits and dividends in fu ll are also permitted, provided that resident companies either do not avail themselves of domestic credit resources or are controlled by Ph i l ip­ pine residents. In a ll other cases, remittances of profits and dividends accruing to nonresidents are allowed up to an amount of 25 per cent of their equity participa­ tion (net of taxes). Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trade­ marks, and copyrights are permitted up to 50 per cent of the royalties or rentals incurred during the year, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manu­ factured locally under the royalty contract. Remittances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion- picture films and rentals on television films are per­ mitted up to 50 per cent of the shares or rentals. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be purchased, without pr ior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to November 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Ph i l ip­ pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresi­ dent travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 5 may consist of domestic silver and /or nickel coins. Citizens of the Philippines and permanent resident aliens, when travel­ ing abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 400 for first- class ship or plane tickets or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and F i l ip ino muslims making their first p i lgr im­ age to M e c c a. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an author­ ized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of foreign sales; export permits for copra and coconut o i l, however, are issued only by the Central Bank. Banks must sell to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their exchange receipts from export bills. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES prescribed currencies and unless collection of the pro­ ceeds w i ll be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or ma il transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports w i ll be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 30 days from the date of shipment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut o i l, and for a ll exports to Guam, H o ng K o n g, the Republic of Ch ina, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong K o ng require prepayment. Exports to Indonesia must be invoiced in U. S. dollars. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the pr ior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export pro­ ceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equipment, raw materials, and other requirements. A stabilization tax is levied on the proceeds from major exports. The rate is 8 per cent for logs, copra, centrifugal sugar, and copper ore and concentrates; and 6 per cent on molasses, coconut o i l, dessicated coco­ nut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and con­ centrates, copra meal or cake, unmanufactured abaca, unmanufactured tobacco, veneer core and sheets, ply­ wood, lumber, canned pineapples, and bunker fuel o i l. A ll commodities whose total export value in any year is less than US$5 m i l l ion are exempt from this tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are per­ mitted to open U. S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U. S. dollars they remit to the Ph i l ip­ pines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances by residents or nonresidents of foreign currencies for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances do not represent current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pur­ suant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up 354 to P 500 in domestic currency, of wh ich not more than P 50 may consist of Ph i l ipp ine coins. Capital A ll inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Cen tral Bank. V i r­ tually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are pro­ hibited. F or the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in k ind or in cash) as we ll as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the Board of Investments (BOI), export- oriented industries, and other (nonexport-oriented) industries not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct investments, depending upon the category of industry where the investment is made. Investments in BOI-approved industries and in nonexport-oriented industries not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources may be repatriated in five equal annual installments beginning two years after the commence­ ment of production. Repatriation of investment in export-oriented industries may start one year after the commencement of production; however, annual install­ ments may not exceed net foreign exchange earnings. Investments in a ll other industries may be repatriated in ten equal installments beginning two years after the commencement of production, if previously approved by and registered with the Central Bank. Commerc ial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade transactions. Residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The maturity may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to $250,000, not less than 8 years for amounts between $250,000 and $500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than $500,000. F or export industries, amounts exceeding $500,000 are approved if the credit has a maturity of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of pr inc ipa l. Interest rates may not be more than 2 per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms which are in arrears with government financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are per­ mitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Cen tral Bank pr ior to November 26, 1969. F or those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5 ,000, subject to verification by the Cen tral Bank. The remaining ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con­ tracts or transactions involving assets w i th in the Ph i l ip­ pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or cor­ poration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives A ct of 1967, a ll investors in enterprises registered with the Board of Investments are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of pr inc ipal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. No rma l ly, enterprises owned or controlled by for­ eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly investments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manufacturing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U. S. citizens, corporations, and associations are given the same status for this pur­ pose as Philippine citizens un t il Ju ly 1974. Under the Foreign Investment L aw of 1968, new enterprises in wh ich investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives A ct must obtain authority from the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, permission from the Board must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold must sell their entire output to the Central Bank at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce (calculated at P 3.90 per U. S. dollar) to be eligible for assistance under the G o ld Industry Assistance A c t, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production, subject to prior licensing by the Central Bank. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial PH IL IPP INES users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1971 January 5. A Central Bank memorandum established that remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trade­ marks, and copyrights were allowed up to 50 per cent of the royalties or rentals incurred during the year for which the remittance was being made, provided that no royalties exceeded 5 per cent of the wholesale price of a commodity manufactured locally under a royalty contract. January 10. Exports of embroidery products made of materials consigned to local embroidery companies were exempted from the stabilization tax. February 3. The requirement of pr ior Central Bank approval for importation of machinery and equipment (under L / C, D / A, D / P, or O / A) payable within 360 days was eliminated for firms duly certified as export oriented by the Central Bank, provided that the equip­ ment was for the exclusive and direct use of the firm concerned. February 23. A Central Bank memorandum estab­ lished the terms on which the Central Bank would sell exchange forward against swap contracts related to trade transactions and to foreign currency deposits of the commercial banks. The Central Bank would buy spot exchange (in m in imum amounts of US$100,000) at the "guiding rate" for the day at the F O R EX and resell such exchange forward to agent banks at fixed terms of not less than 90 days, with the following fixed premiums above the spot buying rate of the Central Bank established for such forward sales: 90 days, % per cent; 180 days, % per cent; 360 days, 1 per cent; over one year, 1 per cent. 16. A Central Bank memorandum enabled authorized security dealers to issue, for and on behalf of the Central Bank, licenses authorizing the sale and export to nonresidents abroad of Philippine securities belonging to residents and listed on the M a n i la and M ak a ti stock exchanges, the reinvestment abroad of the proceeds of such sales in Philippine securities belonging to nonresidents, as well as the import of such securities to the Philippines. March 23. Agent banks were required to surrender to the Central Bank, w i th in 30 days of date of notice, their foreign exchange holdings as of February 21, 1970 (valued at a rate of P 3.90 per U. S. dollar) —equivalent to their net foreign asset position of that date—and were notified that failure to comply would result in suspension of the privilege to engage in foreign exchange transactions. 31. Cen tral Bank C i rcu lar N o. 141 of March March 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES A p r il 10, 1962 was amended to include the Japanese Y en in the list of currencies prescribed by the Central Bank to form part of the Philippine international reserves and to be accepted in the settlement of the country's international reserve accounts. April 13. A Central Bank circular provided, inter alia, that no vessel registered in the Philippine registry could be transferred to foreign registry except as the result of sale to a nonresident for which foreign exchange had been remitted and surrendered to the banking system. In the case of transfer to foreign registry of a vessel belonging to an alien resident, Cen­ tral Bank approval required proof that the vessel was acquired without the use of foreign exchange acquired in the Philippines. April 27. New regulations were issued governing foreign exchange remittances of export-oriented firms whose operations included logging. If log exports exceeded 20 per cent of total export earnings the firm would be certified by the Central Bank as not fully export oriented. F or such firms net profit remittances were allowed to the extent of (a) 100 per cent of the nonresident share in net proceeds pertaining to its non- logging operations, such as lumber and plywood, and (b) 25 per cent of the nonresident share of net profits pertaining to logging operations. June 8. The Central Bank required a ll applications for the purchase of exchange for remittances of profits, diyidends, and royalties to be accompanied by a state­ ment of the unremitted amounts of such profits, etc., as of the filing date of the application. July 1. The rates of the stabilization tax were reduced by 2 percentage points to 8 per cent for export pro­ ceeds from logging, copra, centrifugal sugar, copper, and copper concentrates and to 6 per cent for those exports for which the rate initially was 8 per cent. (Such annual reductions were provided for in the law of M ay 1, 1970 establishing the stabilization tax.) July 28. The Central Bank terminated the require­ ment that importers arrange deferred payment terms of at least 180 days for importation by means of docu­ ments against acceptance ( D / A) and open account arrangements ( O / A ). A ll imports henceforth were to be covered by letters of credit, except for firms which as of February 21, 1970 had a history of regular use of D /A and O /A arrangements. July 28. The Cen tral Bank eliminated the provision requiring its approval for importation in excess of US$50,000 a month of agricultural machinery and implements and for machinery and equipment for the exclusive use of firms registered with the Board of Investments when the payments terms did not exceed 360 days. Importation of machinery, equipment, and spare parts falling outside those categories in excess of US$50,000 a month could be made without prior Central Bank approval if the importer obtained a certificate from the BOI showing that the spare parts were not components for assembly or, in the case of 356 machinery and equipment, that the industry concerned was not overcrowded. This also applied to imports with payments terms of less than 360 days. August 4. Au thor ized agent banks of the Central Bank of the Philippines, with effect from August 9, 1971, were required to hold a reserve equivalent to 15 per cent of a ll marginal deposits against letters of credit, the reserve requirement to be increased to 20 per cent, 25 per cent, and 30 per cent with effect from September 9, October 8, and November 8, respec­ tively. The reserve was to be held in the form of deposits with the Central Bank, cash in vault, or a special issue of Central Bank certificates of indebted­ ness. August 9. The Foreign Exchange T rad ing Center ( F O R E X ), in which virtually no exchange transactions had taken place since September 28, 1970, was reac­ tivated. The peso appreciated slightly. It was repegged at the previous level of P 6.435 = US$1 in mid-October. August 16. The F O R EX was closed. It reopened on August 19. August 17. The Cen tral Bank Instruction of Ju ly 28, 1971 governing eligibility criteria for importing under D /A and O /A arrangements was amended. W i th the new measure, importers with "any history" of importing under such arrangements prior to February 21, 1970 could continue to do so. A l so exempt from the require­ ment that imports be covered by letters of credit were those already contracted under D /A and O /A arrange­ ments as of Ju ly 28, 1971. August 31. The scheduled increase to 20 per cent for the reserve requirement on marginal deposits against letters of credit was established according to the follow­ ing timetable: 16.25 per cent as of September 10, 17.5 per cent as of September 17, 18.75 per cent as of September 24, and 20.0 per cent as of October 1. September 6. Certain consumer goods for which letters of credit could not be opened were transferred to the list of liberalized imports. Items affected were watches, watch movements, desk pens, and tea, includ­ ing instant tea. September 8. A Central Bank memorandum modified the measure of Ju ly 28, 1971 governing the conditions for importation of machinery and equipment of more than US$50,000 a month. Added to the list of firms which did not need prior Central Bank approval for imports of machinery, equipment, and spare parts in any amounts were certified export-oriented firms; pre­ viously, imports for direct use of such firms were exempted from pr ior approval under a separate regula­ tion. In the case of machinery imports in excess of US$50,000 a month by firms registered with the BO I, a certificate from the BOI stating that the import was for the direct end-use of the importer was required prior to opening a letter of credit (a release certificate was also required in the case of D /A and O /A ship­ ments). Previously, no such certificate was required. Simultaneously, the BOI was given additional flexibility ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PH IL IPP INES in issuing certificates for nonregistered firms. Certificates could now be issued for imports even into an over­ crowded industry if the imported plant, machinery, and equipment would just maintain existing capacity; cer­ tificates could be issued for import of spare parts to be used as components for assembly into nonagricultural plant, machinery, and equipment if the latter d id not contribute to industry overcrowding. September 29. An increase in the rate for the reserve requirement on marginal deposits against letters of credit from 20 per cent to 25 per cent was announced, to be implemented according to the following schedule: 21.25 per cent as of October 8, 22.50 per cent as of October 15, 23.75 per cent as of October 22, and 25.00 per cent as of October 29. October 27. The Central Bank announced an increase in the reserve requirement on marginal deposits against letters of credit from 25 per cent to 30 per cent accord­ ing to the following schedule: 26.25 per cent as of November 5, 26.50 per cent as of November 12, 28.75 per cent as of November 19, and 30.00 per cent as of November 26. 20. The exchange rate was maintained unchanged at P 6.435 = US $ 1. December 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo. A central rate of Esc 27.25000 per US$1 has been established, and Portugal avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Portugal observes limits for the U. S. dollar of Esc 26.637 buying, and Esc 27.863 selling, per U. S. dollar. Exchange rates for the other currencies quoted by the Bank of P o r t u g a l1 are based on the relative exchange rates in the international exchange markets; the Bank of Portugal's quoted rates are for dealings with the public only, and its sales to the commercial banks are made at 0.2 per cent below the quoted rates. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on a ll sales of foreign exchange. F or settlements with coun­ tries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agree­ ments,2 the U. S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and the pound sterling rate to transactions in "agree­ ment pounds sterling" (for Po land ), while fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Au thor ized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such transactions in foreign markets and may be required to justify the amounts of their sales of escudos to nonresidents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for a ll authorized purposes, but the M in is t ry of Finance may set limits on their foreign exchange resources and in certain circumstances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal; on December 31, 1971 the net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks were subject to ceilings. 1 The quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Dan­ ish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. - Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. 358 Cap i tal held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender requirements may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Decree-Law N o. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between resi­ dents who are private persons. There is no forward exchange market, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions w i th ind i­ v idual customers: the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the com­ mission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions with the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par with the metropolitan escudo. The parity for the Macao pataca is Esc 4.75 — pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges collected by the credit institutions concerned which may not exceed 0.6 per cent; this limit is 0.3 per cent for payments resulting from transactions in foreign currencies and settled through another overseas territory or through metropolitan Portugal. Interterritorial payments are also subject to a service charge of Vi of 1 per cent in favor of the Exchange Fund of the overseas province con­ cerned; 3 for payments between two overseas provinces this charge is divided between the two Exchange Funds concerned. In addition, interterritorial payments which require the direct intervention of the Bank of Portugal as agent of either the interterritorial clearing system or the territorial payments system are subject to a service charge of 0.15 per cent payable to the Bank of Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories con­ stitute a single exchange control territory, the Por tu­ guese Monetary A r ea or Escudo A r e a. W i th in the Escudo A r e a, interterritorial payments may be made directly through commercial banks or channeled through special accounts maintained by the Bank of Portugal (which is reserve bank of the Escudo A r e a, agent of the clearing system, and agent of the Monetary F u nd of the A rea) and the Exchange Funds of the ind iv idual overseas territories (either under the interterritorial payments system or the interterritorial clearing system). Decree-Law N o. 41,403 of November 1957 and Decree-Law N o. 44,016 of November 1961 provide that the foreign exchange regulations of metropolitan Portugal shall be applied in the overseas territories, subject to any local adjustments that may be neces­ sary. Current payments from metropolitan Portugal 3 For Macao, which has no Exchange Fund, the Banco Nacional Ultramarino, which is the bank of issue. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the overseas territories are in principle unrestricted, as are current payments to metropolitan Portugal from most of the overseas territories. In Ango la and Mo z am­ bique, however, transactions invo lv ing payments to metropolitan Portugal as well as to foreign countries are subject at present to a system of priorities. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the M in i s t ry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Comm is­ sion of Econom ic Coordination in the M in is t ry of Econ­ omy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the M in is t ry of Economy administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Fore ign Trade D iv i s ion, operating within the office of the Directorate-General, or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by the economic coordination departments within the M in is t ry of Economy. Practically a ll foreign trade trans­ actions are subject to registration with the M in is t ry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Por­ tugal (see footnote 1 ), or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U. S. dollars (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey), in pounds sterling (for Po l and ), or in escudos or the currency of the partner country (for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and Hung a ry ). In exceptional cases, pay­ ments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to pr ior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Payments between the overseas territories and foreign countries may be made either direct through the authorized banks of the territories concerned, or by means of the interterritorial clearing system, through metropolitan Portugal or another over­ seas territory. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Fo re ign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "T ime Fore ign Accounts in Escudos," for which the P O R T U G AL opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly author­ ized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries,4 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Po r tuga l ,5 (c) purchases or sales of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal against escudos, and (d) transfers between these accounts. F or a ll other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal and for amounts exceeding Esc 50 m i l l ion with a maturity exceeding one year the approval of the M in is t ry of Finance is also required. "Fore ign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per­ sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrange­ ments: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Por­ tugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresi­ dent accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of trade frauds. A ny physical or jur id ical entity may be an importer; importers must be certified by the Co r­ poration of Commerce and must pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restric­ tion. A registration procedure is applied, however, for payment control purposes, and certificates of origin are required to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via overseas territories. Certain products, such as cotton and some oilseed products, may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories after local industrial demand has been satisfied, but are subject to quantitative restric­ tions when imported from third countries. Special regu­ lations are applied to sugar; imports from foreign coun­ tries take place only if supplies from overseas territories are insufficient. A lmost a ll imports from outside the Portuguese 4 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo from payments to nonresidents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such payments in escudos only in exceptional cases. 5 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned may be required to inform the Bank of Portugal of the nature of the transaction for which escudos are required. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P O R T U G AL Monetary A r ea are effected on the basis of "bulletins." F or imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. F or imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is normally 90 days, but extensions are often granted. Payment for imports already cleared through customs requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made after the validity of the bulle­ t in. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the G A T T. The negative list includes certain food­ stuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list comprising 33 items applies to Japan .6 The G A TT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and N ige r ia; imports from these G A TT members of goods liberalized if imported from other G A TT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are G A TT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. A ll imports from countries that are not members of the G A TT are based on individual autho­ rizations; imports from Eastern European countries are generally licensed restrictively or in accordance with bilateral agreements. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports from certain E F TA countries. Imports of non- liberalized industrial products, except for certain pro­ tected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restriction when originating in E F TA coun­ tries. Special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal. Imports of passenger cars are allowed up to 75 units (for E F TA countries 150 units) a year for each producer, while imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehi­ cles from E F TA countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports from other G A TT countries are available under special open licenses. most transactions ceilings are specified for amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. F or payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of foreign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 a person a year for tourism; 7 and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. F or payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the autho­ rized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. App l i c a­ tion must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses; exports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). Export bulletins for exports to Ango la and Mozambique are issued only on evidence that the importer has already obtained an import bulletin. F or exports to other over­ seas provinces and to foreign countries, export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary pur­ pose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, w i th in the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign cur­ rency indicated in the bulletin, if payment is not received from a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to sur­ render. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through autho­ rized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also generally free of quantitative restrictions, but for Portuguese residents may receive freely payments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Por­ tugal does not have bilateral payments agreements. A l so, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have payments agreements may be fiWith effect from April 1, 1972 Portugal ceased to invoke Article X X XV of the GATT in respect of Japan. On the same date a new trade agreement with Japan came into force. 7 Upon verification of the genuineness of the transaction, the Bank of Portugal authorizes the equivalent of Esc 20,125 a person a trip. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of a ll other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction once the proposed operation proves to be real and l ic i t. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Au tho r ized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of external trans­ actions. Capital Cap i tal transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to pr ior authorization by the Bank of Portugal; approval is also required from the authori­ ties of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 m i l l ion, the approval of the M in is ter of Finance and of the M in is ter of Overseas Territories is required. F or most types of transactions, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. A ll capital movements between Portugal and other countries require pr ior approval by the Bank of Por­ tugal; for transactions in excess of Esc 50 m i l l ion whose maturity exceeds one year, the approval of the M in is ter of Finance is also required. Fore ign investments in Portugal by residents of coun­ tries that are members of or associated w i th the O E C D, E F T A, I M F, or I B RD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Por­ tugal's development and provided that no speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, o il refining, and fishing. Furthermore, Decree N o. 393 /70 specifies certain industries in which any domestic or foreign investment is subject to prior authorization. The transfer abroad of the full proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment which or ig i­ nated in a bona fide inward capital movement from O E C D, E F T A, I M F, or I B RD countries is authorized without restriction. Fore ign credits from O E CD countries with a maturity of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the underlying commercial or service transaction. The acceptance of other foreign credits is normally permitted. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary A rea by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indispensable for the national economic development. In practice, authoriza­ tion is granted only for small investments and for the P O R T U G AL improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an O E CD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Por tu­ guese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other O E CD coun­ tries or between Portugal and an O E CD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a pr ior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other O E CD country are authorized automatically up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of the case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a family when they return to their country of or ig in. Transfers on account of family loans, bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other O E CD countries are usually authorized automatically up to Esc 500,000; for higher amounts, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. F or bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an O E CD country at the time of death. Gifts to relatives resident in O E CD coun­ tries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to O E CD countries in respect of life insur­ ance policies due from Portuguese insurers are author­ ized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a sur­ render value. Cap i tal movements and transfers of assets in excess of the limits mentioned, or not enumerated in the pre­ ceding paragraphs, or involving countries other than those mentioned above, are authorized on the merits of each case. The net foreign asset positions of authorized banks must not exceed 5 per cent of their current liabilities in domestic currency. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal, and there is a free gold market. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of metropolitan Por­ tugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance autho- 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P O R T U G AL rization from the Bank of Portugal. Licensing of imports is relatively liberal but import authorizations for indus­ trial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Association of Industrial Users of G o l d. Domestic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transaction tax of 20 per cent. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary A rea may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U. S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1971 February 5. A ceiling was placed on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks. The ir working bal­ ances in the form of sight deposits or investments with a maturity of up to one year, net of foreign liabilities w i th a maturity of up to six months, could not exceed the equivalent of 5 per cent of their escudo liabilities (sight deposits, time deposits up to 30 days, and deposits subject to notice of up to 30 days). August 16. Foreign exchange transactions were sus­ pended. They were resumed on August 23. August 23. The official buying rate for the U. S. do l­ lar was suspended. As a result the escudo began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for wh ich had been Esc 28.75 = US $ 1. November 6. Certain legislation was issued revising trade and payments relations within the Escudo A r e a. (The most relevant Decree-Laws and Decrees are speci­ fied in individual November 6 and December 15 entries below.) The new legislation created a Monetary Po l icy Section in the Counc il of Ministers for Econom ic Affairs to coordinate and guide the monetary, exchange, and credit policy of the various national territories. Interterritorial trade and payments were placed under a system of exchange controls resembling those already applied to trade and payments between the Escudo A r ea and foreign countries. Controls would be applied restric- tively only in Ango la and Mozambique where, as an "interim solution," trade, payments for invisibles, and capital transfers would be authorized according to a system of priorities designed to conserve foreign November exchange resources for the real needs of economic development and national well-being. Interterritorial payments were decentralized; whereas formerly they all passed through the interterritorial clearing system, pay­ ments could now be made either direct through com­ mercial banks or through entries in reserve accounts maintained in the name of each prov inc ial Exchange Fund with the Bank of Portugal as agent of the system. The interterritorial clearing system would now function only in connection with the use of the credit facilities of the Monetary Fund of the Escudo A r e a. 6. Decree-Law N o. 478 /71 established the basic principles for a reform of the system intro­ duced in 1963 for the interterritorial trade and pay­ ments of the Escudo A r e a, and for a revision of exchange and trade controls in Ango la and Mozambique w i th a view to restoring their balance of payments equilibrium and preventing the accumulation of arrears in payments due from these two provinces to metropoli­ tan Portugal. W i th in the Escudo A r e a, both an inter­ territorial clearing system and an interterritorial pay­ ments system would be operated; previously, only the former existed. November 6. Decree-Law N o. 479 /71 provided for an increase in the resources of the Escudo A rea Mone­ tary F u nd from Esc 1.5 b i l l ion to Esc 3.0 b i l l ion. The increase was to be used exclusively for the settlement of payments arrears incurred by Ango la and Mozambique. December 15. Decree-Law N o. 550 /71 introduced in metropolitan Portugal certain regulations necessary for implementing Decree-Law N o. 4 7 8 / 7 1. December 15. Pursuant to Decree-Law N o. 4 7 8 / 7 1, Decree N o. 551/71 introduced implementing regula­ tions regarding merchandise trade, payments for inv is i­ bles, and capital transfers between Portuguese national territories. December 15. Pursuant to Decree-Law N o. 4 7 8 / 7 1, Decree N o. 552/71 introduced procedures for regulat­ ing merchandise trade, payments for invisibles, and capital transfers in the overseas provinces for transac­ tions with other national territories or with foreign countries. December 15. Pursuant to Decree-Law N o. 4 7 8 / 7 1, Decree N o. 553/71 established regulations for the rev i­ sion of the interterritorial clearing system and the Monetary Fund of the Escudo A r e a. December 22. A central rate of Esc 27.25000 per US$1 was established, and Portugal availed itself of wider margins. The par value in terms of gold was maintained unchanged. Subsequently, the Bank of Por­ tugal set new official limits for the U. S. dollar at Esc 26.637 and Esc 27.863, respectively. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda F ranc. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is RF 92.1053 = US$1. Rwanda avails itself of wider margins. The Na t ional Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has estab­ lished fixed buying and selling rates for banks for the U. S. dollar and for certain other cu r renc ies ;1 those for the U . S. dollar are RF 92.11 buying and RF 94.18 selling. The authorized banks, acting for the account of the Na t ional Bank, must deal at these rates with the public but are permitted to charge a fee of H4 per m i l l, buying and selling. There is a free market for transactions in foreign banknotes in which the authorized banks' middle rates are not permitted to deviate from par by more than 15 per cent; banks may not import or export banknotes. Administration of Control Con t rol over foreign exchange transactions and for­ eign trade is vested in the Na t ional Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are in principle to be determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the M in is ter of Finance, the Governor of the Na t ional Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Payments to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda must be made in the currency of the country concerned. Otherwise, outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the cur­ rencies quoted and specified by the Na t ional B ank .1 Most payments to Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll foreign payments except in border trade must be made by bank transfer. Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public po l icy. Most imports from Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll imports except baggage and household effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for a ll other goods must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Au thor iza t ion (Modele 1). The approval of an import license applica­ tion constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license permits the importa- 1 Belgian francs, Burundi francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. tion of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified companies. The Na t ional Bank grants global import licenses for other commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their con­ tinuous operation. Licenses are examined at the Na t ional Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoic- ing and to ensure that importers do not have excessive recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that payments are made to the sup­ plier country. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, the Consump­ tion Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the Na t ional Bank by the intermediary bank. Payments for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda and must be made within the validity period of the license. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Na t ional Bank is required for a ll payments for invisibles; such approval is normally given in a ll cases where no illegal outflow of capital seems to be involved. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, through the authorized banks, for trans­ port, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages (after income tax and after deduction of RF 25,000 a month) of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independ­ ent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports and exports cannot be made until the goods have been cleared through customs or after the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may in prin­ ciple be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the Na t ional Bank to prescribe their transfer in install­ ments; the transfer of profits earned by foreign com­ panies' subsidiaries that are not incorporated in Rwanda is not permitted. Nonresidents may transfer their net income from rents (after deduction of taxes and a pro­ vision of 20 per cent for maintenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the Na t ional Bank, however, may l im it the amounts so transferable. Residents may freely purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs, w i th the exception that the prior approval of the central bank is required for per­ sons of foreign nationality who have resided in Rwanda less than 10 months. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R W A N DA Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the Na t ional Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresi­ dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll exports, except trade samples, baggage and house­ hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declara­ tion entitled Declaration of Co l lec t ion of Foreign Exchange {Modele E). Declarations for a ll exports must be presented to the Na t ional Bank through an author­ ized bank, for certification. A Declaration is va l id for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the Na t ional Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. F or exports to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, pay­ ment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to a ll other countries, this period is 120 days. A ll exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collection. A ll claims must be collected w i th in 30 days from the date on wh ich they become payable. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital A ll outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment L aw of M ay 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guar­ antees may be given by the Na t ional Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1971 January 1. The prior approval of the Na t ional Bank ceased to be required for the purchase with Rwanda francs of tickets for foreign travel, provided that the purchaser, if a foreign national, had resided in Rwanda for at least 10 months. January 26. The import regulations for automobiles were revised; deposits or banking guarantees covering the import payment ceased to be required. August 25. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was maintained at RF 100 = U S $ 1. August 25. The central bank maintained its official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar at RF 99.50 and RF 100.50. August 25. Current payments permitted were only in U. S. dollars or official market Belgian francs, and applications for licenses had to be expressed in these currencies, as follows: in Belgian francs for Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Switzerland; and in U. S. dollars for a ll other countries. Exchange receipts continued to be permitted in any currency. Furthermore, currencies other than the U. S. dollar and the Belgian franc could be used for payments in respect of banks' pre-August 24 contracts or obligations stipulating such other curren­ cies. The free market in banknotes was not affected by these measures. These regulations were revoked with effect from December 29. August 25. The Na t ional Bank established a daily quotation for the Belgian financial franc. Inward and outward transfers of capital had to be based on this rate. November 5. The standard deduction for local expenses to be applied against applications for monthly transfers of salaries and wages of expatriates was increased from RF 15,000 to RF 25,000. November 10. The regulations concerning domestic sales of automobiles were modified. Resident foreign nationals normally had to pay in foreign exchange or to the debit of a Foreign Account or an Account in Trans­ ferable Rwanda Francs. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar was changed from RF 1 0 0= US$1 to RF 92.1053 = US $ 1. Rwanda availed itself of wider margins. December 21. The Central Bank changed its official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar from RF 99.50 and RF 100.50 to RF 92.11 and RF 94.18. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi A rab ian R i y a l. The Saudi A rab ian Monetary Agency sells U. S. dollars to banks at the rate of SRls 4.15 per US$1 and buys at SRls 4.14 per US$1 and these rates serve as the basis for exchange quota­ tions in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. A ll settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi A r ab ia formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as from M a r ch 22, 1961. These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree N o. 35 of February 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi A r ab i a. Prescription of Currency Gold The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. A ll imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from a ll sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. A ll exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. The monetary authorities and a ll other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Changes during 1971 August 23. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at SRls 4.50 = US $ 1. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became SRls 4.14475 = US $ 1. Official buying and selling rates were established at SRls 4.14 and SR ls 4.15 per U S $ 1. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the F rench Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the finan­ c ial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub­ l i c, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan­ c ial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance and Investment D iv is ion in the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, 1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 366 inward direct investment, and a ll outward investments. M u ch of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange trans­ actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of Fo r­ eign T rade ), inc lud ing those for gold. Import certifi­ cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury; settle­ ments with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th Guinea are made through bilateral accounts established under a payments agreement.2 Settlements w i th a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun­ tries or in F rench francs through Fore ign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements w i th Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to F inanc ial Accounts of C FA banknotes, French bank­ notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the F rench Treasury is not permitted, except for B C E AO banknotes mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Dakar by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South A f r i c an origin and /or provenance are prohibited from any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohib­ ited from a ll countries except member states of the West A f r i c an Customs U n i o n. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to ind iv idual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea other than M a li are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution although free from import license, require pr ior author­ ization by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Econom ic Affairs. Imports of virtually a ll goods from E EC coun­ tries and imports of some goods from former O E EC countries, the Un i ted States, and Canada are free of quantitative restrictions; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from a ll n o n -EEC countries outside the F rench F ranc A r e a. The import program is put into effect through ind iv idual licenses, wh ich are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agri­ cultural producers. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 25,000 (c . i .f or delivered at the border). The import licenses or import certificates enti­ tle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu­ mentary credit is opened or eight days before the pay­ ment is due if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of lading). Payments for Invisibles A ll payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the F rench Franc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the F rench Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 100,000 a year for each person ( C F AF 50,000 for children under ten); any foreign exchange remain­ ing after return to Senegal must be surrendered. A p p l i­ cations for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. F or business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 5,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 100,000 a per­ son a trip, but not more than the equivalent of C F AF 10,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appro­ priate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to a maximum of C F AF 10,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers S E N E G AL to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if the country of destination is not a member country of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, they must declare the amount taken out to the customs if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000; other banknotes as stated above; and any means of payment established abroad in their name, such as travelers checks. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. W i th a few exceptions (e.g., gold, dia­ monds, tunny), exports to countries in the French F ranc A r ea are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be collected and surrendered within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. A ll export transactions relat­ ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresi­ dent travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a; resi­ dents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an author­ ized bank w i th in eight days. Capital A ll settlements between Senegal and Portugal, Rho­ desia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cap i tal move­ ments between Senegal and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the F rench F ranc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, and over the issuing, 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S E N E G AL advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i­ tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and for­ eign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.-3 Foreign direct investments in Senega l4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before such investments are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. D irect invest­ ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con­ sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for­ eign securities in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, as do issues by Senegalese companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 40 m i l l ion for any one bor- 3 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com­ panies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 368 rower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the External Finance and Investment D iv i s ion. In accordance with the Investment Code of M a r ch 22, 1962, as amended on M ay 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Fou r -Year Development P lan, an investor may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) tion d'etablissement with the Government by which he receives certain legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A conven­ is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a minimum investment over three years of C F AF 500 m i l l ion. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a m in imum investment of C F AF 40 m i l l ion in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and staff, may be accorded the des­ ignation of priority enterprises; as such, they are e l i­ gible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are C F AF 20 m i l l ion invested or 20 jobs created. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior author­ ization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain­ ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By virtue of Ordinance N o. 60-21 of Octo­ ber 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the M in is ter of Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commerc ial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree N o. 65-794 of Novem­ ber 19, 1965). Changes during 1971 August 27. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. 31. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Senegal. The exchange August ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S E N E G AL rate for the F rench franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = U S $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Fore ign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, wh ich were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. November 22. The foreign exchange booklet for travelers (carnet de change) was abolished. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on December 29.) December 22. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. The conditions for forward sales of exchange proceeds from exports were specified. December 24. The exchange rate for the French franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts SIERRA LEONE The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions w i th commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = <£ stg. 0.50, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. Certain capital transfers to non-Sterling A r ea countries are channeled through the investment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in is t ry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Au thor ized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and settlements with other Sterling A r ea countries may, with minor exceptions, be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling A r ea currency.1 Au thor ized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Au tho r­ ized payments to other countries outside the Sterling A r ea (except Rhodesia), including payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in any other foreign c u r r e n c y2 except Rhodesian currency. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area, (except Rhodesia) may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United K ingdom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.3 Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling A rea other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the Sterling A r ea that is freely exchangeable for Sierra Leonean currency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. 1 In this survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Scheduled Territories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South Africa. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than Sterling Area currencies. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swed­ ish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 370 Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author­ ized payments from residents of the Sterling A r e a, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling A r ea currencies other than Rhodesian currency by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling A r ea currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are B locked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. A ll imports from mainland Ch ina, countries in the Soviet area other than Czechoslovakia and the U. S. S. R ., and A lge r ia, Egypt, Gu inea, and the Republic of Ko rea, and certain commodities 4 from any source require individual import licenses. The Na t ional Trad ing Company L t d. has a monopoly over the import of specified foodstuffs. W i th the exception of specified textiles,5 a ll other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U. S. S. R ., and most countries and territories outside mainland Ch ina and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.6 Fore ign exchange is granted for a ll permitted imports. 4 The "negative" list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and preparations, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewelry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, certain other foodstuffs, raw tobacco, certain textiles and textile articles, fiber suitcases, umbrel­ las, plastic footwear, cement, commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kernel, and palm oil), salt, certain oil refinery products, all sizes of complete passenger automobiles, certain other motor vehicles, and certain parts of motor vehicles. 5 These specified textiles may be imported under open general license from all countries other than Ceylon, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania, and Singapore. Imports from the sources mentioned are restricted. 6 The open general license applies to Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahama Islands, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Colombia, People's Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U. S. S. R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Windward Islands, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es to res iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r ea m ay be m ade f ree ly. R em i t t a n c es to a ll o th er coun t r i es r e q u i re a p p r o v a l, w h i ch f or m o st c u r r e nt t ran s­ ac t ions is g i v en f r e e ly. F or t r a v el to coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a, r e s i­ dents are e n t i t l ed to a ba s ic ex ch ange a l l ow a n ce of Le 5 00 a c a l e n d ar y e a r. A p p l i c a t i o ns for l a rg er amoun ts are c o n s i d e r ed on an i n d i v i d u al bas is. In a d d i t i on to the ba s ic exchange a l l ow a n c e, t rave le rs m ay take ou t, regard less of d e s t in a t ion, the e q u i v a l e nt of Le 20 in any c om b i n a t i on of leone notes and s t e r l i ng notes a nd Le 50 in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy no tes o ther t h an R h o d e s i an c u r­ r e n cy no tes. N o n r e s i d e nt t rave le rs m ay take o ut f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy b ankno t e s, i n c l u d i ng s t e r l i ng no tes, d e c l a r ed by t h em w h en e n t e r i ng S i e r ra L e o n e. Exports and Export Proceeds E x c e pt for a few c omm o d i t i es s o ld to c e r t a in de s t ina­ t ion s, expo r ts r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al e x p o rt l icen se s. E x p o r ts to P o r t u g a l, R h o d e s i a, a nd S o u th A f r i ca are p r o h i b i t e d. T he p roceeds in spec i f ied c u r r e n c i es (see foo tno te 3) of expo r ts o ther t h an d i am o n ds to coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea mu st be s o ld to an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk in S i e r ra L e o ne or e lsewhe re in the S t e r l i ng A r ea w i t h in s ix m o n t hs f r om the date of expo r t, un less p e rm i s s i on to do o the rw i se is o b t a i n e d. T he p roceeds f r om expo r ts of d i am o n ds mu st be o b t a i n ed in a spec i f ied c u r r e n cy w h i ch mu st be s o ld to e i ther of two de s igna ted a u t h o r­ i z ed b anks in S i e r ra L e o n e. Proceeds from Invisibles R e c e i p ts f r om i n v i s i b l es in spec i f ied c u r r e n c i es (see foo tno te 3) mu st be offered f or sale to an a u t h o r i z ed bank. Sub ject to d e c l a r a t i on u p on en t ry, pe rsons en ter­ i ng S i e r ra L e o ne m ay b r i ng in any am o u nt of dom e s t ic and f o r e i gn b ankno t es o th er t h an G u i n e an f r anc no tes; the im p o r t a t i on of the la t ter is p r o h i b i t e d. Capital T h e re are no r e s t r i c t ions on the m o v em e nt of c a p i t al be tween S i e r ra L e o ne a nd o ther S t e r l i ng A r ea c o u n t r i e s. C a p i t al p aym en ts to non re s iden ts of the S t e r l i ng A r ea are subject to exchange c o n t r o l. R e s id en ts of S i e r ra L e o ne r e q u i re p e rm i s s i on f r om the B a nk of S i e r ra L e o ne to pu r ch a se f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy secu r i t ies or r e al estate s i tua ted ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a; w h en su ch p u r­ chases are a p p r o v e d, they mu st n o r m a l ly be f in an c ed w i th inv e s tm ent c u r r e n cy a c q u i r ed in the L o n d on m a rk e t. Inves tmen ts by res iden ts of coun t r i es ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea o ther t h an R h o d e s ia m ay be r e p a t r i­ ated at any t im e, toge ther w i th p ro f i ts, p r o v i d ed that exchange c o n t r ol p e rm i s s i on was o b t a i n ed i n i t i a l ly for the inv e s tm en t. T he S i e r ra L e o ne E x c h a n ge C o n t r ol O r d i n a n ce imposes c o n t r ol on the issue a nd t rans fer of secu r i t ie s. S I ERRA L E O NE T he p l a c i ng of an issue in S i e r ra L e o ne requ i res p e rm i s­ s i on if e i th er the p e r s on a c q u i r i ng the secu r i t ies or the p e r son f or w h om he is n om i n ee is res ident ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a. P e rm i s s i on mu st a lso be o b t a i n ed be fo re a s e cu r i ty reg i s te red in S i e r ra L e o ne m ay be t r an s f e r r ed to a p e r s on re s ident ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a. C a p i t al in respect of secu r i t ies reg i s te red in S i e r ra L e o ne m ay n ot be t r an s f e r r ed ou t s ide S i e r ra L e o ne w i t h o ut p e rm i s s i o n. W h e re p e rm i s s i on has been g i v en f or secu r i t ies reg is­ t e r ed in S i e r ra L e o ne to be s o ld to pe rsons res ident ou t­ s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a, the c om p a ny is u s u a l ly r e q u i r ed to o b t a in b a nk c e r t i f i c a t i on of the funds b r o u g ht i n to S i e r ra L e o ne to ensu re that p e rm i s s i on w i ll n ot be g i v en la ter f or t a k i ng out a p p r e c i a b ly m o re t h an was b r o u g ht i n. T he D e v e l o pm e nt O r d i n a n ce of 1960 p r o v i d es for i n c ome t ax a nd cu s toms d u ty conce s s ions to f o r e i gn a nd d om e s t ic c om p a n i es u n d e r t a k i ng i n d u s t r i al or a g r i c u l­ t u r al a c t iv i t i es that are needed f or the d e v e l o pm e nt of the c o u n t r y. N o n c i t i z e ns are p r o h i b i t ed f r om o w n i ng or c o n t r o l l i ng c e r t a in types of bus inesses. Gold R e s id en ts m ay f ree ly p u r c h a s e, h o l d, a nd s e ll g o ld c o i ns in S i e r ra L e o ne f or n um i sm a t ic pu rpo se s. A l s o, res iden ts a nd non re s iden ts m ay f ree ly pu r ch a s e, h o l d, s e l l, or e x p o rt c e r t a in S i e r ra L e o n e an g o ld c o i ns i s sued f or c omm em o r a t i ve pu rpo se s. W i th these ex c ep t ion s, res iden ts o ther t h an the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s, g o ld p r o­ duce r s, a nd a u t h o r i z ed i n d u s t r i al users are not a l l ow ed to p u r c h a s e, h o l d, or s e ll g o ld in any f o rm o ther t h an j ew e l r y, at h ome or a b r o a d. Im p o r ts of g o ld in any f o rm o th er t h an j ew e l ry c o n s t i t u t i ng the p e r s o n al effects of a t r av e l er r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al im p o rt l icen se s. E x p o r ts of g o ld in any f o rm r e q u i re l icenses issued by the C h i ef In sp e c tor of M i n e s; s u ch l icenses are not n o r m a l ly g ran ted except f or expo r ts by or on b e h a lf of the m o n e­ t a ry au tho r i t i es a nd l o c al g o ld p r o d u c e r s. T r a v e l e r s, h ow e v e r, do n ot r e q u i re a l i c en se to take out p e r s o n al j ew e l ry v a l u ed at up to Le 2 0 0. E x p o r ts of u n w o r k ed g o ld are n ot sub ject to e x p o rt tax. Changes during 1971 At v a r i o us t imes d u r i ng the y e a r, a n um b er of c o m­ m o d i t i es we re added to those r e q u i r i ng a spec i f ic im p o rt l i c en s e. March 11. T he B a n k i ng ( A m e n d m e n t) A ct 1971 b e c ame effective. It e n a b l ed a l i c e n s ed b a nk who se h e ad office is s i tua ted ou t s ide S i e r ra L e o ne to be i n c o r p o r a t ed in S i e r ra L e o n e. April 8. T he N a t i o n al T r a d i ng C o m p a ny L t d ., a m i x ed en te rp r i se, was i n c o r p o r a t ed u n d er the C o m p a­ n ies A c t. July 29. A b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag reement w i th m a i n­ l a nd C h i na was s igned a nd c ame i n to effect. August 23. T he fixed r e l a t i o n s h ip b e tw e en the l eone a nd the p o u nd s t e r l i ng ( Le 1 = <£ stg. 0 . 5 0) was m a i n- 3 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S IERRA L E O NE tained. As a result, the leone began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the rate for which previously w a s Le 1 - US$1 .20. November 1. By virtue of a Notice to Importers of August 6, the Na t ional Trad ing Company L t d. was given an import monopoly for specified foodstuffs. The items concerned were taken off the open general license. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained, as was the fixed relationship between the leone and the pound sterling (Le 1 = £ stg. 0.50). The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became Le 1 = US$1 .30286. Sierra Leone subsequently decided that it would avail itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Do l l a r. The Board of Commissioners of Cu r­ rency, Singapore, stands ready to buy Singapore cur­ rency against sterling, wh ich is the intervention currency, at S$7.1816 per £, stg. 1 and to sell Singapore cur­ rency for sterling at S$7.5122 per <£ stg. 1; these rates include a commission of 2lA per cent per Singapore dollar wh ich the Board charges per Singapore dollar issued or redeemed, and no additional commissions are charged. The Board deals only in sterling and only at these limits. No official buying and selling rates have been established for other currencies. Commerc ial banks deal directly with the Monetary Au tho r i ty of Singapore which has discretion to buy and sell sterling within or at the limits of the official buying and selling rates of the Currency Boa rd. As at December 31, 1971 the buying and selling rates of the commercial banks were S$7.3525 and S$7.3850 per <£ stg. 1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling A rea currencies and for specified currencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Singapore dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1971, the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were S$2.8750 and S$2.8975, respec­ tively, per US$1. Au thor ized banks are permitted to deal forward m all currencies. Singapore, Ma lays ian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in the three countries concerned, at the com­ mercial banks and w i th the monetary authorities. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Au tho r i ty of Singapore administers exchange control. M u ch of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade D iv i s ion of the M in i s t ry of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling A r ea and gener­ ally follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the Un i ted K i n g­ dom. A ll payments to and from Sterling A rea countries 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. must be made in sterling or another Sterling A r ea cur­ rency. Certain payments to Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. are made through special accounts. Payments to other countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling A r ea through an External A c­ count, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling A r ea through an External Accoun t, or in any specified currency. Special regula­ tions apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling A r ea currency, other than Rho­ desian currency, sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Sterling A r ea currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require pr ior approval. Imports and Import Payments V i r tua l ly a ll imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are con­ trolled for health or security reasons, and in such cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. Some imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. A ll imports originating in Rhodesia and South A f r i ca or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in, wholly or mainly manufactured in, or consigned from A lban ia, mainland Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Mongo l ia, and No r th V i e t -N am, and license applications for such goods must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco L t d ., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries. Intraco, a state-sponsored trading company, conducts much of the importing business with state trading countries. F or imports of certain commodities, the open general license does not apply to Japan. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S I NG A PO RE Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur­ rency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling A rea may be made freely. Payments related to commer­ c ial transactions and personal payments of a current nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are author­ ized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for wh ich no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$ 10,000 a person a year for travel out­ side the Sterling A r ea and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application. Remittances to non­ residents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on a ll bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permis­ sion is obtained, not more than S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of S$2,000 in foreign currency notes and Sterling A r ea banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Ma lays ia, and Brunei) may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Ma laya and British Borneo, that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Ma lays ia. Travelers visiting Singapore may take out any amount of foreign cur­ rency notes and Sterling A r ea banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Ma lays ia, and Brunei) that was declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Canada, the United K ingdom, and the Un i ted States are subject to quantitative restriction, and all exports of copra, scrap metal, steel bars, cement, and a few minor items are restricted. Other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling A r ea and for exports to any country of gold in any form; this require­ ment serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Con t rol A ct and are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing 374 exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Ma lays ia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Ma lays ian and Brunei cur­ rency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, M a l aya and British Borneo, and other travelers may bring in S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore, Ma lays ian, and Brunei cur­ rency notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling A r e a. Cap i tal trans­ fers from Singapore to countries outside the Sterling A r ea require exchange control approval. Inward trans­ fers of capital from such countries do not require approval but the subsequent utilization of nonresident- owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes in most cases is subject to ind iv idual exchange control approval. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an A s i an Currency Un it may freely accept depo­ sits in specified currencies and Sterling A r ea curren­ cies from an Ex ternal Account from nonresidents of Singapore and may freely on-lend specified currencies to nonresidents of Singapore; banks require individual exchange control approval for corresponding borrowing or lending transactions w i th residents of Singapore. A ll transactions must be conducted over accounts held in the A s i an Currency Un i ts of the banks concerned. Investment by residents of countries outside the Ster­ l ing A r ea other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that sub­ scription monies are derived from an Ex ternal Accoun t, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Subject to pr ior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Borrow ing from local banks by nonresident-controlled companies is sub­ ject to con tro l. Investments by Singapore nationals in countries out­ side the Sterling A r ea may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the eco­ nomic interest of Singapore. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold The Board of Commissioners of Currency has issued a gold co in of S$150 that is legal tender. Th is coin may be freely held and used by residents. Resident and non­ resident travelers may freely take out or bring in six such coins; additional quantities require exchange con­ trol approval. Otherwise, the following applies. There is a free gold market in Singapore to which only nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea have access. On ly authorized dealers in gold may deal in gold bu l l ion, and licenses are issued to them to import gold for sale in this market. Settlements must take place in a Sterling Area currency from an Ex ternal Account or in a speci­ fied currency. Buyers may export the gold or deposit it with an authorized dealer; they may resell it to any authorized dealer. Residents other than authorized dealers are not per­ mitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Imports of gold jewelry and ornaments and of gold wire for indus­ trial purposes do not require a specific import license, but otherwise permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given, except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine require­ ments of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial use. The import of gold for the manufacture of jewelry for domestic sale takes place under a tender system administered by Intraco. A ll goldsmiths, who must be registered w i th the Invest­ ment and Exchange Con t rol Department of the Mone­ tary Au tho r i ty, may take part. Successful tenderers are granted purchase permits enabling them to obtain their supplies of gold from the authorized agents of Intraco. The amount that any successful tenderer may purchase is limited to 1,500 ounces a quarter. Imports of gold bars, inc lud ing those effected under the tender system, are subject to a levy of S$3 an ounce.2 There are no other duties or taxes applicable to domestic or foreign gold transactions. Exports to Sterling A r ea countries of articles manufactured partly or who l ly of gold require neither exchange control approval nor an export license. Otherwise, exports of gold in any form other than 2 Exempt from this levy is gold imported by authorized dealers and goldsmiths for re-export to Malaysia S I NG A PO RE jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. The price of gold used for the manufacture of orna­ ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese G o ld and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1971, this price was about S$200 per tahil for 24 carat gold and S$180 per tahil for 22 carat gold. Changes during 1971 January 1. The Monetary Au tho r i ty of Singapore began operations. It took over the administration of exchange control from the M in is t ry of Finance. January 18. A Sterling Guarantee Scheme went into effect, implementing an investment guarantee agreement with the Un i ted K ingdom. A ll approved U. K. direct investments made in Singapore between January 18, 1971 and June 30, 1973 were eligible to apply for protection during an eight-year period against the risk of expropriation without adequate compensation and against the risk of nontransferability of profits. March 12. Imports of ro l led oats for use as animal feed and hulled oats were freed from quota restriction and specific licensing. July 5. Imports of motorcycles were freed from quota restriction and specific licensing. August 23. The fixed relationship between the Singa­ pore dollar and the pound sterling (<£ stg. 1 = S$7.3469) was maintained. As a result, the Singapore dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar from the pre­ vious level of S$3.06122 = U S $ 1. August 23. The Monetary Au tho r i ty changed its sup­ port rates for sterling from % per cent to 1 per cent either side of parity. Its new buying and selling rates for sterling became S$7.2750 and S$7.4200. On Sep­ tember 10, the support rates were changed back to % per cent either side of parity. August 23. Foreign exchange dealings, wh ich had been suspended since August 16, were resumed, in i t ia l ly for spot sterling only. September 10. Imports of instant coffee were freed from quota restriction and specific licensing. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained, as was the fixed relationship between the Singapore dollar and the pound sterling. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became S$2.81955 = U S $ 1. Subsequently, Singapore decided that it would avail itself of wider margins of up to 2% per cent and the Monetary Au tho r i ty set new sup­ port rates. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Sh i l l ing .1 The Somali Na t ional Bank carries out exchange transactions in some of the "convertible" currencies 2 with authorized dealers at fixed rates, taking into consideration those in leading exchange markets in Europe; on December 31, 1971, the Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.7857 and So. Sh. 7.1428. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali Na t ional Bank and the commercial banks, operating as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (including banking com­ mission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Au tho r­ ized exchange dealers generally do not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of Commerce is the pr inc ipal govern­ ment agency concerned w i th the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish po l icy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali Na t ional Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" cu r renc ies ,2 and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. Certain independ­ ent commercial banks have been appointed as author­ ized exchange dealers. The Na t ional Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the M in i s t ry of Commerce. An Adv iso ry Commission, consisting of nine members representing various m in­ istries, the Somali Na t ional Bank, the Customs Au tho r­ ity, and the police, advises the M in i s t ry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and con­ t rol of foreign economic transactions. The Na t ional and the L o c al Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the M in is t ry of Commerce, the M in is t ry of Finance, the Somali Na t ional Bank, the Customs Au tho r i ty, and the police, decide on applica­ tions for licenses for imports and exports and for trans­ fers in respect of services. The Somali Na t ional Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the Na t ional 1 Effective January 9, 1972 Somalia established a central rate of So. Sh. 6.92520 = US$1 and availed itself of wider margins. In terms of gold, the Somali shilling was depreciated to 0.118193 gram of fine gold. 2 The "convertible" currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South Arabian dinars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. On December 31, 1971, the National Bank quoted only the U. S. dollar, sterling, the lira, and the deutsche mark. 376 Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law N o. 10 of Febru­ ary 18, 1960 on foreign investments as extended and amended by Decree-Law N o. 3 of M a r ch 3, 1968 and L aw N o. 17 of June 15, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with mainland Ch ina and the U. S. S. R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denomi­ nated in pounds sterling. Settlements with Egypt must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from Egypt and a ll payments for invisibles to Egypt other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with that country; other payments normally are channeled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements with a ll other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 2); however, residents are not permitted to make settle­ ments with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i c a. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals abroad on diplo­ matic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources w i th in Somalia; and by other physical or jur id ical persons individually authorized by the Somali Na t ional Bank to maintain a nonresident account. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. F or reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities from all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires ind iv idual license. A ll other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for 11 commodities or groups of commodities, constituting approximately one third of total imports in terms of value. Some of these commodities may be imported only from specified sources.3 No quotas are maintained for any imports. The state trading organization (The Na t ional Agency for Trade, Ente Nazionale per il Commerc io or E N C) is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distri- ;| The permitted origin varies from commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply are Egypt and/or the U. S. S. R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bution of certain commodities received under aid pro­ grams. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fats, rice, wheat flour, and bleached and unbleached cotton cloth. A ll imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. A ll imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and con­ sular agencies, and international organizations are sub­ ject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali Na t ional Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.) Provided that the Somali Na t ional Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the applica­ tion or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali Na t ional Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of pay­ ment) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Special payments regulations apply to border trade. Payments for imports from neighboring countries 4 are permitted only by letter of credit, by cash against documentation, and by advance payment, up to a l im it of So. Sh. 10,000 against a cash deposit of 15 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enter­ prises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali Na t ional Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. App l ica t ions for a ll other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. F or tourist travel by residents, there is an allowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to a ll countries, except Canada, Japan, and A Aden, Djibouti, Mukalla, Ethiopia, and Kenya. S O M A L IA the Un i ted States; for these three countries, the allow­ ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out without authoriza­ tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by a ll persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for a ll commodities. Exports of bananas and eleven other commodities or groups of commodities are subject to license; other exports may be made freely. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marke t ing Boa rd. A ll export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali Na t ional Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali Na t ional Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Where no banks are operating such exports are permitted up to So. Sh. 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali Na t ional Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali Na t ional Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arr iva l, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring i n. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Cap i tal transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in M a r ch and June 1968). In accordance with the p rov i­ sions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the M in i s t ry of Planning and Coord ina t ion. F or "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in i r r i­ gation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and d r i l l ing activities in connection with o il and mineral 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O M A L IA exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a l im it of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a l im it of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be trans­ ferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The M in is t ry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption to any enterprise from import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. F or investments reg­ istered prior to M a r ch 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or after M a r ch 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of res­ ident employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. Such coins and unworked gold may be traded in Somalia only against domestic cur­ rency, at fixed buying and selling rates established by the Somali Na t ional Bank on September 26, 1964; these rates are So. Sh. 7.937 and So. Sh. 8.101 a kilogram, respectively. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Somali Na t ional Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori­ ties and industrial users. G o ld imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 carats within one month. Imports are exempt from customs duty when originating in E EC countries and subject to a 10 per cent duty when of other or ig in. Changes during 1971 January. Two independent commercial banks were established and were appointed as authorized exchange dealers. (In M ay 1970, a ll commercial banks had be­ come agencies of the Somali Na t ional Bank but had retained their ind iv idual status as authorized dealers.) June 10. A Presidential Decree of June 5 provided that only the Na t ional Agency for Trade cou ld import animal and vegetable oils and fats, rice, cement, bleached and unbleached cotton cloth, and wheat flour. August 18. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 28. August 28. The Na t ional Bank, while maintaining the selling rate for the U. S. dollar unchanged, announced a new buying rate for that currency as well as new buying and selling rates for sterling, l i r a, and deutsche mark reflecting current rates in major exchange markets abroad. The Somali shilling was appreciated in terms of the buying rate for the U. S. dollar, the effec­ tive parity relationship for wh ich had previously been So. Sh. 7.14286 = U S $ 1. December 20. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 23. December 23. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became So. Sh. 6.57895. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts SOUTH AFRICA The par value is 1.09135 grams of fine gold per South A f r i c an Rand. Exchange rates are based on the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank's fixed rates for sterling, the intervention currency, against rand (R 194.6955 buying, and R 196.1615 selling, per <£100) and the London market rates for sterling against other curren­ cies. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is R 1 -= US$1 .33333. Subject to certain l im i ta­ tions, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct for­ ward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in sterling only. The rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971, were US$1.3120 buying, and US$1.3015 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory F or purposes of control over transactions in securi­ ties, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South A f r i c a, South-West A f r i c a, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South A f r i c a, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the D irec tor of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secre­ tary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsi­ bility of the Treasury, which has delegated this author­ ity to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South A f r i ca is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling A r ea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with residents of other countries except Rhodesia may be made in sterling or rand to or from an Ex ternal Account or in any specified currency ,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non- Sterling A r ea currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. 1 In the South African exchange control regulations, specified cur­ rencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries outside South A f r i c a, South-West A f r i c a, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (the Blocked A c­ counts, however, of residents of the last three countries also are nonresident accounts—see section on Exchange Con t rol Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by resi­ dents of other Sterling A rea countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents to Sterling A r ea countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts; and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling A r ea (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to coun­ tries in the Sterling A r ea and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea to South A f r ican residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling A r ea country concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts in South A f r i c a; for purchases of any Sterling A r ea currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r i c a. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho­ desia. They may be credited with a ll authorized pay­ ments by South A f r ican residents; with transfers from Nonresident Sterling A r ea Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling A r ea country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South A f r i c a; with transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of Rhode­ sian currency, any specified currency (see footnote 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling A r ea other than South A f r i c a, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling A r ea country con­ cerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South A f r ican residents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South A f r i ca for any purpose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South A f r i c a; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r i c a. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling A r e a. They may be credited with a ll authorized payments by South A f r ican residents to such countries outside the Sterling A rea; with transfers from other External 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O U TH A F R I CA Accounts in South A f r i ca and from External Accounts in the Un i ted K ingdom or other countries in the Ster­ ling A r ea (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling A r ea country concerned); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South A f r i c an residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South A f r i ca or in any other country in the Sterling A r e a; for pur­ chases of any non-sterling currency; and for with­ drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r i c a. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the proceeds from sales of South A f r i c an securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South A f r i ca or to another B locked Account in South A f r i c a, but may be retained on deposit or rein­ vested in securities wh ich are quoted loca l ly; such secu­ rities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in government, municipal, or public utility stocks, the pro­ ceeds on redemption at maturity are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. B locked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the G o v­ ernment to nonresidents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repay­ able at face value in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may be used for direct investment in manufactur­ ing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the per­ missible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South A f r i c an securities held by immigrants p r ior to their arrival in South A f r i ca or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favor­ able consideration is given to the release of such imm i­ grants' funds (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). Imports and Import Payments A ll importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered w i th the D irec tor of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com­ modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are va l id for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) a ll goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) a ll goods imported from Rhodesia, M a l aw i, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those coun­ tries. The Import Con t rol Regulations for 1971, as amended in November of that year, distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: ( 1) Goods wh ich may be imported without an import permit. Th is free list contains 57 tariff headings 380 or subheadings and corresponds to some 9 per cent of 1970 imports. (2) Goods wh ich may be imported only under per­ mit and for wh ich quotas are determined from time to time. These fall under 201 tariff headings or subhead­ ings and account for about 83 per cent of 1970 imports. (3) Goods wh ich may be imported only under per­ mit and for wh ich specific permits authorizing the import of these goods ind iv idua l ly are issued. They cover some 8 per cent of 1970 imports. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign­ ment documents (proof of importation), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Au tho r i ty is, however, dele­ gated to the commercial banks to approve certain pay­ ments without limitation and others up to established limits. F or current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r i c a, approval is given by the authorized banks with­ out reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Re­ serve Bank and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as exces­ sive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the monetary area of the owner. L im i ted amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a ch i ld under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 350 for an adult (R 140 for a ch i ld under 12) for travel to M a l aw i, Rhodesia, Zaire, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West A f r i c a. A p p l i­ cations for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South A f r i ca may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to M a l aw i, Portuguese East A f r i c a, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r i ca within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r i c a. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South A f r i c a. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela­ tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi­ land ). Cer ta in other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the Un i ted K ingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protec­ torate, or trust territory, or the Un i ted States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, a ll export proceeds must be surrendered within six months from the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. U p on entry, residents may bring in R 20 in South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, resident and nonresident travelers coming from M a l aw i, Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South A f r i­ can Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South A f r i c an securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to B locked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized banks without reference to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of govern­ ment, mun ic ipa l, and public utility stocks and national savings certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of blocked funds; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South A f r i ca that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 S O U TH A F R I CA per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount is blocked. P r ior to August 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds (for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a family were per­ m i t ted); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at official market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 3V+ per cent a year. Since August 1964, facilities have been available for subscriptions to five- year transferable bonds (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank approves trans­ fers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or loan account balances or undis­ tributed current profits, or for the transfer of any d i v i­ dends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval; certain types of such transfers are freely per­ mitted by open general licenses. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and trans­ actions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capi­ tal by residents require the approval of the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r i­ can (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South A f r i c an residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r i c an stock­ brokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securi­ ties, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South A f r i c an residents to retain i n, or transfer to, neighbor­ ing territories funds for bona fide long-term invest­ ment in specific development projects or for the expan­ sion of existing South A f r ican owned or controlled projects are considered by the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. F or three years after their arrival in South A f r i c a, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South A f r ican securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current l i v­ ing expenses. There are normally three ways in wh ich holders of 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S O U TH A F R I CA blocked rand can repatriate funds from South A f r i c a: (1) by taking up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above)—these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility stocks, and national sav­ ings certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South A f r i c an shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad (at a price wh ich may involve a premium or a discount on the South A f r i c an quotation). Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r i ca for numismatic purposes. W i th this excep­ tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. A ll exports of gold require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written decla­ ration to the effect that the jewelry w i ll be brought back to South A f r i ca on the traveler's return) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (subject, except for exports to M a l aw i, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee). Furthermore, authorized deal­ ers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export for numismatic purposes currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each appli­ cant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its output to the Reserve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The M i nt from time to time strikes gold coins that do not circulate freely in South A f r i ca as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling A r ea countries. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1971 June 29. The exchange allowance for travel to neigh­ boring territories was increased from R 250 to R 350 a person a calendar year for adults (from R 100 to R 140 for ch i ld ren ). July 2. The importation of a number of commodities was liberalized. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 24. 382 August 23. The gold parity of the rand and the exist­ ing effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar of R 1 = US$1 .40 were maintained. The rand was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. August 24. The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank resumed exchange operations and quoted fixed exchange rates for the U. S. dollar of R 1 - US$1.4070 (buying) and R 1 = US$1.3965 (selling) for transactions with the public through authorized dealers; the Reserve Bank quoted no rates for other currencies but commercial banks and other authorized dealers were free to do so. The Reserve Bank provided forward cover only in U. S. dollars to cover fixed and ascertained exchange commit­ ments arising from approved commercial transactions directly invo lv ing the movement of goods from the Republic. November 25. South A f r i ca invoked A r t i c le X II of the G A TT and intensified its quantitative restrictions on imports. November 25. The unused balances of a ll 1971 import permits were immediately reduced by 50 per cent. The list of commodities wh ich could be imported without an import permit was substantially curtailed. The list of goods that could be imported only under permit but for wh ich permits were issued to cover the fu ll reasonable requirements of importers was replaced by an amended list of commodities for which permits would be issued to ind iv idual importers on the basis of quotas established for this purpose. The list of com­ modities for which specific permits were required remained substantially unchanged. A ll goods for wh ich import permits were required were divided into two categories, v iz ., goods for which global import quotas wou ld be allocated to importers, and goods that cou ld only be imported under the authority of a specific permit. G l o b al quota arrange­ ments included the fo l low ing. F or raw materials, manu­ facturers would obtain import facilities for four months' requirements, and merchants would receive an in i t ial issue of 30 per cent of their actual 1969 imports. F or capital goods, manufacturers wou ld receive permits on an end-user basis, and merchants would receive an in i t ial issue of 30 per cent of their actual imports dur­ ing 1969. F or general merchandise, importers would receive permits corresponding to 20 per cent of their actual imports during 1969. Import permits for 1972 would not, as in the past, be va l id from January 1 but from M a r ch 1. Import policy would be reviewed during M ay 1972, when the extent of additional permit issues for 1972 wou ld be decided upon. December 17. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 22. 21. The par value was changed from 1.24414 to 1.09135 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became R 1 = US$1.33333 or US$1 = R 0.75. December ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 22. The rand was repegged from the U. S. dollar to sterling. The Reserve Bank quoted fixed exchange rates for sterling of £ 1 00 = R 194.6955 (buying) and £ 1 00 = R 196.1615 (se l l ing). The Bank ceased to quote fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. do l lar. December 22. The Reserve Bank resumed providing forward cover only in sterling. S O U TH A F R I CA 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 of fine gold per Spanish Peseta. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is Ptas 64.4737 = U S $ 1, and Spain avails itself of wider margins. The official intervention limits are Ptas 63.0231 buying, and Ptas 65.9243 selling, per US $ 1. The official buying and selling rates of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute ( I E M E) on December 30, 1971 were Ptas 65.90 and Ptas 65.92 per US $ 1. Market rates for specified cur­ rencies 1 (except at present the Canadian dollar) admitted to the exchange market vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Official buying and selling rates for these currencies and the Canadian dollar are fixed daily by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute acting in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are central­ ized in the I E M E, which publishes the rates at wh ich it settles the transactions it carries out direct. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U. S. dollar. The I E ME also quotes buying and selling rates for banknotes in specified foreign currencies on a weekly basis. Au thor ized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and forward transactions related to commercial transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, M e l i l l a, and Spanish Sahara constitute a single exchange control ter­ ritory, the Spanish Monetary A r e a. Administration of Control An interministerial commission formulates govern­ ment policies on official reserve and foreign exchange operations. Controls over foreign exchange operations are administered by the Bank of Spain, in part through the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, wh ich, although a separate administrative entity, is a Department within the Bank of Spain. Trade controls are administered by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified cur­ rency ,1 but in practice they are usually made in the cur­ rency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro­ ner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 384 ment countries 2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: exter­ nal accounts in convertible pesetas, external accounts in internal pesetas, and nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that market; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or speci­ fied foreign currencies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and w i th receipts from the Na t ional Lottery (when evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the purchase of foreign cur­ rencies (including foreign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of pay­ ment in Spain. A ll other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the I E M E. Private banks are required to make special noninterest-bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of the increases after Octo­ ber 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in convertible pesetas (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or time deposits at less than three months' no t ice ). External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions and salaries obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transferable; w i th receipts from the Na t ional Lottery (when no evidence is sub­ mitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); and with interest received on balances held in these accounts. They may be debited to pay the per­ sonal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (staff expenses if the account is opened in the name of a company) and for the purchase of government bonds, of fixed-interest-bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corporations, and of shares quoted on the stock exchange. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes. A ll other entries on these accounts require the pr ior authori­ zation of the I E M E. 2 Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt. Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, and Syrian Arab Republic. Most settlements with the Syrian Arab Repub­ lic take place in convertible currencies outside the agreement accounts. With effect from January 1, 1972, settlements with Czechoslovakia and Poland were placed on a convertible currency basis. The clearing arrangements with Bulgaria, Hungary, and Rumania are to expire at the end of 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident accounts in convertible foreign curren­ cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, non­ resident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited w i th convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency in i t ia l ly deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to an external account in external pesetas. Overdrafts are prohibited, except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Since October 29, 1970, commercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards wo rk ing abroad. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports are admitted under the following arrangements: (a) free imports, (b) global quotas, (c) state trading, and (d) ind iv idual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." A ll imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Po l icy and Imports. P ro­ vided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with wh ich Spain has no bilat­ eral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan .3 A ll other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts. W i th certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese or ig in. Licenses for specified imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po land, and Ruman ia are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural products, some raw mate­ rials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state trade; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agri­ cultural products that are free of quantitative restric­ tion and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential com­ modities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not nor- SPA IN mally permitted to exceed 90 days. A ll import trans­ actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the inter­ mediary of the bank of dom ic i l ia t ion; exempt from domiciliation are transactions whose value is less ,than Ptas 100,000, provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles A ll transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. F or a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. F or certain services transfers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required which are granted freely. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been pur­ chased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restric­ tion. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance con­ tracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; however, amounts in excess of this l im it are approved freely by the I E ME for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. F or larger amounts, the banks must apply to the I E ME for approval, which is granted freely for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. Exports to a ll des­ tinations of olives for o il production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. W i th very few exceptions, licenses for exports are granted freely. A ll export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the I E ME through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. 3 The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries (except Egypt) or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, mainland China, North Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal, North Viet- Nam, San Marino, Tibet, and the U. S. S. R. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the I E ME through author- 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPA IN ized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Fore ign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of A p r il 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted freely, and that wh ich exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Coun c il of Ministers; for participation in Spanish shipping com­ panies, the former ratio is 40 per cent. Foreign invest­ ment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected w i th national defense, public information, and certain public services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agr icu l ture is free from control, provided that certain minimum conditions are met; these conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in exist­ ing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the m in imum conditions are not fulfilled. A ll invest­ ment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires pr ior authorization by the Government; investment in a ll other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Fore ign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the M a d r id exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment L aw, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made after January 1, 1950 for the purpose of establishing, mod­ ernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of pr inc ipal of investments made by nonresidents before January 1, 1950 are subject to prior authorization by the I E M E; current policy is to approve such transfers. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree N o. 701 of A p r il 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services) are permitted freely. Th is applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with con­ vertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares acquired after January 1, 1950 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for further purchases of shares. The above 386 applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no l im it on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained from the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before January 1, 1950 may be used to purchase other Spanish securities but may not be transferred abroad without prior author­ ization by the I E M E; such authorization is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in convertible peseta accounts. The I E ME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from external accounts in internal pesetas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather l ibera l ly, pro­ vided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by a ll residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. App rov al of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresi­ dents require authorization by the Directorate-General of Expor ta t ion; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the I E ME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience w i th the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the I E M E. A l s o, the authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require pr ior approval by the I E M E. A l so exempt from approval by I E ME are peseta credits in excess of 18 months extended by banks to nonresidents. F or transfers abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Gold Residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the I E ME is allowed to import or export gold; industrial requirements are met by imports effected by the I E M E. Changes during 1971 January 1. A new bilateral trade and payments agree­ ment with Egypt entered into force. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired. January 1. The advance deposit requirement appli­ cable to imports from all sources was extended for six months and was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The advance import requirement was discontinued on June 30, 1971. January 1. G lob al quotas for 1971 went into effect. The ir total value exceeded by about 10 per cent that of the previous year. April 1. A new excise tax, ranging from 10 per cent to 20 per cent, was introduced on certain nonessential consumer goods, whether imported or domestically pro­ duced; in the case of imports the tax was levied on landed cost plus import duties and compensatory import tax. April 29. The text of a new agreement for economic cooperation with Paraguay was published. It would replace the bilateral payments agreement with Paraguay and provided for all settlements between the two countries to take place in freely convertible currencies. The new agreement was to become effective upon rati­ fication. By the end of 1971 ratification had not yet taken place. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with M o r­ occo expired. July 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Mex ico expired. August 16. The official quotations for all currencies other than the U . S. dollar were suspended. The central bank's buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were maintained unchanged and the intervention limits remained at Ptas 69.475 and Ptas 70.525. SPA IN August 26. It was announced that the parity of the peseta remained unchanged but that the central bank might, if necessary, intervene outside the former inter­ vention limits. Official quotations for currencies other than the U . S. dollar were resumed. Subsequently, the intervention limits for the U . S. dollar were widened from approximately 0.75 per cent to approximately 2 per cent either side of the parity of Ptas 70 = U S $ 1, and the official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were lowered on several occasions, notably on October 20. October 5. A trade agreement was signed with Czechoslovakia which provided that from January 1, 1972 a ll settlements were to take place in convertible currencies. October 15. Banks were permitted without special authorization by the Bank of Spain to grant peseta credits to nonresidents for periods in excess of 18 months. October 19. Banks were required to make non- interest-bearing deposits at the Bank of Spain in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of any increases after October 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in convertible pesetas (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or time deposits at less than three months' no t ice). Furthermore, banks were prohibited from pay­ ing interest on nonresident-held peseta deposits w i th­ drawn within three months from the date of deposit. December 16. Exchange transactions were suspended. They were resumed on December 23. December 23. The existing par value of the Span­ ish peseta was maintained in terms of gold; the effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became Ptas 64.4737 = US $ 1. Spain availed itself of wider margins. The official limits for the U. S. dollar were set at Ptas 63.0231 and Ptas 65.9243. December 26. Spain ceased to invoke A r t i c le X X XV of the G A TT in respect of Japan. December 31. The bilateral payments arrangements with Poland expired. Settlements henceforth wou ld take place in convertible currencies. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. do l lar is L Sd 1 = US$2 .87156. Official rates for transactions in U. S. dollars are established daily by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank ), whose rates for transactions w i th authorized banks and the Govern­ ment on December 31, 1971 were US$2.8758 buying, and US$2.8673 selling, per L Sd 1. Exchange for cer­ tain travel is subject to a surcharge of 19.65 per cent calculated on the par value; the resulting effective exchange rate is L Sd 1 = US$2 .40. Certain inward and outward remittances also are made at this rate.1 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by author­ ized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the M in is t ry of Supply, but a ll registration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sudan). Import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget that is drawn up jointly by the M in is t ry of Economics and Trade, the Bank of Sudan, the M in is t ry of the Treasury, and the M in is t ry of Supply. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th bilateral countries 2 are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Suda­ nese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most non­ commercial invisibles except those payable to E g y p t3 have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to a ll other countries and monetary areas (the "converti­ ble area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any non­ resident account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts 1 With effect from March 11, 1972 an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 was applied to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87 continued to be applied. The exchange rate modification was implemented through the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U. S. dollar to the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87. The existing exchange taxes on certain payments for, and receipts from, current invisibles were adjusted to yield the effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. 2 The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hungary, India, and Poland. 3 Payments to Egypt for Suez Canal dues must be made in con­ vertible currencies, and most proceeds from exports of invisibles to Egypt must be received in convertible currencies. A ll other payments are settled through the bilateral account. 388 in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited with convertible cur­ rencies. Other foreign personnel work ing in the Sudan under certain contracts, as we ll as foreign nationals residing in the Sudan, may maintain Deposit Accounts in Sudanese pounds. B locked Accounts are maintained by former resi­ dents; earnings accruing to these accounts may be trans­ ferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, wh ich are not negotiable, may be used w i th in the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, a ll debits and credits to B locked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca also are prohibited. Permitted imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to licensing, including books, periodicals, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the value of which does not exceed L Sd 2, or, for gifts, L Sd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which com­ prises a number of essential goods, including raw mate­ rials, pharmaceuticals, and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely from any source. (3) Imports subject to ind iv idual licensing; some of these are subject to quotas, and some are prohibited. Sugar is imported by a state agency on ly. F or goods that require ind iv idual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the M in i s t ry of Supply and validated (franked) by the Exchange Con t rol De­ partment of the central bank. F or goods on the open general license list, importers must register their import transactions with the M in i s t ry of Supply before enter­ ing into firm contracts with foreign suppliers; the regis­ tration form must be validated (franked) by the central bank. The M in i s t ry of Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an authorized bank) checks the observance of the prescription of cur­ rency requirements and the terms of payment. Before validation is given, an advance import deposit of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be made for most private sector imports. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin of 40 to 60 per cent upon its establish­ ment. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. Ceilings are currently in effect on imports of a ll commodities, but goods of Indian or Egyptian origin sometimes are exempt from these ceilings. These may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution affect the operation of the licensing and validation procedures set out above. A ll import applications, whether for goods subject to individual licensing or under the open general license, are subject to a global monthly quota (applicable in principle to private sector imports only); applications for imports from India and Egypt sometimes are accepted even when the monthly quota has been filled. A surcharge of 15 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of a ll imports .4 A stamp duty of L Sd 5 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of imports; government remittances, however, are exempt. A license fee of L Sd 2 is payable on all regis­ tration forms and licenses for imports valued at more than L Sd 10. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remit­ tances, are permitted for family maintenance (up to L Sd 500 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to L Sd 840 a student a year for Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in the Un i ted States is exempt from this ce i l ing ), and for certain other purposes. A l l ow­ ances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the Bank of Sudan up to a maximum of L Sd 60 every other year for each adult traveling to Western Europe and the United States, and L Sd 40 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, however, are the equiva­ lent of L Sd 50 an adult, and L Sd 20 a ch i ld, a year and are authorized by the commercial banks. Exchange for travel (other than travel for educational purposes or medical treatment, business travel, or official travel) must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of US$2 .40 per LSd 1. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit for­ eign exchange to Sudan for conversion at the rate of L Sd 1 = US$2 .40 may at the same rate obtain foreign exchange equivalent to 75 per cent of the amount con­ verted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. Sudanese Government officials (other than seconded staff) and students receiv­ ing educational allowances at the official rate are not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Por tu­ gal, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Shipping charges, insur­ ance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presenta­ tion of the required documents. Income accruing to emigrants from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from B locked Accounts) may be remitted up to L Sd 1,500 a year. The exportation of Sudanese cur­ rency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually a ll payments for inv is i- S U D AN bles. The duty is L Sd 10 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, L Sd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign exchange for business travel, L Sd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for other travel, and from L Sd 1 to L Sd 0.25 on applica­ tions for remittances for other purposes; government remittances and those by diplomats are exempt. F or certain payments for invisibles there may be delays in making the foreign exchange available. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. W i th the exception of exports to Egypt and exports of domestic products in short sup­ ply, which are subject to ind iv idual licensing, exports do not require a license. Exporters must, however, sub­ mit an export form to an authorized bank. Au thor ized banks may approve these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Banks are also held responsible for checking export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an author­ ized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Most major export commodities are exported solely by pub­ l ic sector entities. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad other than govern­ ment officials or students may remit foreign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of L Sd 1 = US$2 .40. Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are sub­ ject to the general prescription of currency require­ ments. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Sudanese currency is for­ bidden. Capital Under the Organization and Promotion of Industrial Investment A ct of 1967, which superseded an earlier law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advan­ tages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capi­ tal and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nation­ ality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of L Sd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration from the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of L Sd 2,500. Gold 4 Reduced to 5 per cent with effect from March 11, 1972. Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S U D AN the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori­ ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reim- ported. Changes during 1971 February 15. A ll private sector importers were required to register with the M in is t ry of Economics and Trade to be eligible for import licenses and registration forms. May 11. The exchange allocation for adults for non­ business travel to Egypt was reduced from L Sd 80 to L Sd 50 a person a year. July 25. The portion of their remittances to the Sudan that Sudanese nationals working abroad cou ld retransfer abroad was increased from 50 per cent to 75 per cent. The one-year time l im it on such transfers was eliminated. The incentive was extended to Sudanese diplomats, but these were only eligible after their final return to the Sudan. August 10. Imports from the U. S. S. R. were tempo­ rar i ly suspended. August 23. The Sudanese pound remained pegged to sterling at the pre-August 15 level. As a result, the Sudanese pound began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. do l lar. September 21. The Sudanese pound was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for wh ich was maintained at the pre- August 15 level of L Sd 1 = US$2 .87156. December 27. Exchange transactions, wh ich had been suspended for several days, were resumed. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained unchanged at L Sd 1 = US$2 .87156. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.457587 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder. The fixed official rates for the U. S. dollar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per US$1. There are also fixed official buying and sell- ing rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U .S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies l are set by the Central Bank of Surinam on the basis of the daily quotations for those currencies against the U. S. dollar in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in Surinam. All dealings between commercial banks and the public take place at these rates, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Surinam. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non- residents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic Affairs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank of Surinam to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to pro- vide foreign exchange for specified current payments without requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without requiring the submission of an exchange license by the remittor. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies2 although payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Pay- 1 All currencies other than the Surinam guilder are considered for- eign currencies. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Jamaica dollars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U. S. dollars. ments to and from the U. S. S. R. must be made through accounts in Netherlands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U. S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks have also been granted a general license permit- ting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EEC sources for protective reasons and sub- ject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered m i lk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furn i- ture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of com- modities are subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabricated wooden houses, cer- tain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane furn i ture. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a pay- ment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual 3 However, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Surinam, provided that they pay for their imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S U R I N AM licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have the authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remittor in respect of gifts, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinam residents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remittor's own family in the Netherlands An t i l les or the Netherlands (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the des t ina t ion ;4 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted un t il three days before departure. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (including Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sur. f. 250. Nonres i­ dent travelers may also freely take out any foreign bank­ notes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup­ ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com­ modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds within six months of shipment to an authorized bank. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only after favorable advice of the Director of Agr icu l ture, A n im al Hus­ bandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regula­ tions. Certain exporting companies have received spe­ c ial permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without l im i t, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equiva­ lent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of the Foreign Exchange Board of Sep­ tember 21, 1960 provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest­ ments made by nonresidents w i th foreign capital after Ju ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred w i th in a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 pro­ vides for additional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli­ cation for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. F or estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, further annual transfers are per­ mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Surinam accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinam assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur­ chase or sell in specified countries 5 Surinam corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests w i ll benefit. A ll borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires pr ior ap­ proval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in p r inc i­ ple, to those undertaken for the account of their cus­ tomers, and banks are required, in principle, to surren­ der to the Cen tral Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased over foreign currency sold, but the Cen tral 4 Sur. f. 1,000 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 500 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,000 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 1,500 for the rest of the world. 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank permits them to place part of their l iqu id funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U. S. dollars corresponding to the balances in nonresident U. S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Lo c a l ly produced gold must be surrendered to the Fore ign Exchange Board by sale to the Cen tral Bank at Sur. f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Sur. f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold w i th an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 9 4% , o o o -6 Au thor ized gold buy­ ers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, wh ich it sells to authorized gold buyers. Residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins in Surinam for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among them­ selves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and autho­ rized industrial and dental users are not allowed w i th­ out special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses 7 issued by the Fo re ign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declara­ tion, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. 6 These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with a revision of the official U. S. dollar price per troy ounce. 7 Import and export licenses are not required since commodities are defined so as to exclude gold. S U R I N AM Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of E EC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of a ll forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1971 February 1. Imports of edible vegetable oils ceased to be restricted by quotas. May 6. Official exchange quotations and official in­ tervention were suspended. On M ay 7, the Central Bank of Surinam again posted its former fixed official buying and selling rates at Sur. f. 1.87 and Sur. f. 1.90 per US$1. On M ay 13, the Central Bank resumed deal­ ing in other currencies, at rates based on the dollar rates quoted in Amsterdam. August 16. The Central Bank suspended its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar (Sur. f. 1.87 and Sur. f. 1.90, respectively) as well as its quotations for other foreign currencies. August 24. The Central Bank resumed trading in foreign exchange. The buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at Sur. f. 1.87 and Sur. f. 1.90, respectively. The rates for other currencies, including the Netherlands guilder, were, as previously, set by the Central Bank on the basis of the daily quota­ tions for those currencies against the U. S. dollar in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in Surinam. December 27. The par value was changed from 0.471230 to 0.457587 gram of fine gold. The effective parity relationship of the U . S. dollar became US$1 = Sur. f. 1.78876. The corresponding relationship of the Netherlands guilder became f. 1 = Sur. f. 0.55128. It was announced that Surinam would avail itself of wider margins of SWAZILAND Exchange and Trade System Swaziland's currency is the South A f r i c an Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.09135 grams of fine gold per rand, which corresponds to R 1 = S DR 1.23. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is US$1 = R 0.75. Exchange rates are based on South Afr ica's fixed rates for sterling against rand and on international market rates for the currencies concerned. Swaziland does not control exchange or trade trans­ actions within the common monetary and customs area comprising Swaziland, Botswana, Lesotho, and South A f r i c a. In relation to a ll other countries, Swaziland oper­ ates exchange control regulations similar to those of South A f r i c a, except with regard to capital transactions w i th in the Sterling A r e a, of which Swaziland is a mem­ ber .1 In principle, payments for current transactions, whether within or outside the Sterling A r e a, while sub­ ject to control, are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital within the Sterling A r ea generally are permitted but require the approval of the Swaziland exchange con­ trol authorities, i.e., the M in i s t ry of Finance, while such transfers to destinations outside the Sterling A r ea are screened by the Swaziland Government in cooperation with the Reserve Bank of South A f r i ca and are severely restricted. Inward capital transfers from sources outside the Sterling A r ea require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Swaziland are not regarded as residents of South Africa. Swaziland is a member of a Customs U n i on w i th Bots­ wana, Lesotho, and South A f r i c a. It operates its own import licensing system, based on the South A f r i c an regulations. Imports from Botswana, Lesotho, and South A f r i ca are free of license. A ll importers of goods requir­ ing import licenses must be registered with the M in i s t ry of Commerce, Industry, and M ines. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are in general to be used for goods of the same type previ­ ously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are va l id for imports from any country. Provided that licensing regulations are respected, and subject to pres­ entation of the necessary consignment documents to his bank, an importer is granted exchange to make the import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Changes during 1971 August 23. The gold parity of the rand and the exist­ ing parity relationship for the U. S. dollar of R 1 = US$1 .40 were maintained. The rand was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar. December 21. The par value of the rand was changed from 1.24414 to 1.09135 grams of fine gold. The effec­ tive parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became R 1 = US$1 .33 or US$1 = R 0.75. December 22. The rand was repegged from the U. S. dollar to sterling. The Reserve Bank quoted fixed exchange rates for sterling and ceased to quote fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish K r o n a. A central rate of S Kr 4.81290 = US$1 has been established, and Sweden avails itself of wider margins. The Sveriges Riksbank stands ready to carry out transactions in U. S. dollars, the intervention cur­ rency, with authorized ("exchange") banks at the offi­ cial limits of S Kr 4.7050 buying and S Kr 4.9200 selling, per U S $ 1. The rate for the U . S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically a ll exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. The difference between the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and certain European currencies1 may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Au tho r ized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. A l so, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other non­ residents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Accoun t. Au thor ized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering cur­ rent payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Au thor ized banks may conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks, or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Fo rwa rd market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of A r t i c le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree­ ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Con t rol B o a r d .2 The 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alternates are appointed by the Government; the other members and their alternates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Au thor ized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange con­ trol regulations. A ll current payments are exempt from exchange con­ tro l, provided that they are made through the inter­ mediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The au­ thorized banks have been granted general licenses giv­ ing them power to approve various payments that are s t i ll subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the Na t ional Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t­ ing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must in most cases be made by crediting kronor to a Special Account related to that country. Receipts from Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kronor through the Spe­ c ial Account of that country or through any Regular Accoun t. Payments to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kronor to any nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Receipts from other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and K ronor Accounts for Nonresidents D om i­ ciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of a ll countries. These accounts may be credited with trans­ fers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized pay­ ments to countries other than Eastern Germany by resi­ dents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with pro­ ceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the cre­ ation of abnormal balances. Regular Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresi­ dents after emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW E D EN Foreign Exchange Accounts from, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by account holders, and funds trans­ ferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and main­ tenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. 3 are held in foreign cur­ rencies. Such accounts may be credited with author­ ized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for trans­ fers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. W i th the main exception of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically a ll goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pacific islands under U. S. control, and (2) A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, No r th Ko rea, Mongo l ia, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R ., and N o r th V i e t -N am. Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. Most im­ ports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports from certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific licensing arrangements. Technically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are governed by ''negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import licence. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad wh ich are con­ sidered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equiv­ alent of S Kr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. L i fe insurance premiums in excess of S Kr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the ind iv idual approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely in respect of premiums on insurance policies contracted pr ior to 1969. F or tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to S Kr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Au tho r ized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired i n, the country. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than S Kr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); however, a ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and a ll exports to Eastern Germany require licenses. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a noninterest-bearing foreign currency account w i th a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. 3 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat- 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to S Kr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and un l im­ ited amounts of other means of payment. Capital D irect investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which for industrial­ ized countries normally is granted only if the investment is regarded as clearly to the benefit of the Swedish foreign exchange position and which may be conditional on a substantial part being financed abroad at medium term (at least five years). Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than S Kr 40,000 for each family, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it; amounts up to S Kr 75,000 may be approved where a recreational need is clearly established. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, subject to verification by the Riksbank, permitted to transfer up to S Kr 100,000; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigra­ tion), he w i ll normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets.4 When Swedish residents emi­ grate to engage abroad in activities of limited duration, applications for transfers in excess of the in i t ial S Kr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity con­ tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Long-term borrowing abroad by nonbank firms is under certain conditions permitted (for periods of at least ten years) with a view to facilitating the financing of industrial investment in Sweden; other­ wise, borrowing to finance economic activity in Sweden is not, in principle, authorized. The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers also can be granted per­ mission to take up credit abroad to finance contem­ plated imports. Borrow ing by way of suppliers' credit 4 With effect from February 4, 1972 the ceilings on approvals of repurchases of Swedish securities held abroad and on outward capital transfers by emigrants were removed. SW E D EN is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commer­ cial practice in the trade concerned. In this context, authorized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Per­ mission for the financing of the afore-mentioned export and import transactions requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Foreign-owned compa­ nies in Sweden usually are permitted to borrow at medium and long term from the parent companies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than specified in the contract requires a new authoriza­ tion from the Riksbank. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresi­ dents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the I B RD have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market and the balance of payments were considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require autho­ rization, which normally is given. L iqu ida t ion of such investments and the transfer of proceeds, including appreciation, require authorization, which always is given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur­ chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies with the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include certificates or shares issued by investment companies or investment funds (mutual funds) and is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authoriza­ tion buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies from other residents. Subject to individual license, the repurchase abroad is permitted of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the secu­ rities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden.4 The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW E D EN form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit require­ ments are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the foreign exchange holdings of each authorized bank and the types of assets have been listed which the banks may hold within their for­ eign exchange limits. The ceilings for the commercial banks have been fixed with a view to enabling them to carry out their foreign business. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur for­ eign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net l i a­ bility in any one currency. Th is, together with the permis­ sion to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign cur­ rency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. However, Swedish banks may not borrow abroad to relend in Sweden or sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. Gold G o ld in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scien­ tific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commerc ial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collectors or collections. Changes during 1971 January 12. It was announced in the Finance B i ll that long-term borrowing abroad by industrial enter­ prises and by the Investment Bank would henceforth be permitted when it benefited industrial expansion. F i rms had to be able to present specific investment projects that were desirable from a balance of payments point of view. The size of each borrowing would be judged in relation to the supply of domestic real resources and to available economic capacity. March 30. Emigrants cou ld normally expect permis­ sion to transfer funds (including the proceeds from sales of Swedish securities) abroad, one calendar year after the year of emigration, in excess of the previous l im it of S Kr 1 m i l l ion for each family (wh ich had included the S Kr 100,000 in i t ial allocation granted each person upon departure). March 30. The provisions governing the allocation of exchange for the purchase of real property abroad for recreational purposes were revised. The standard allo­ cation of S Kr 75,000 was henceforth granted only where the recreational need was clearly established (by a medical certificate or the person being over 6 0 ). In other cases, an allocation of S Kr 40,000 was granted upon application. June 2. Parliament authorized the Government to exempt from customs duties imports of most industrial products and processed goods originating in developing countries. Generalized tariff preferences on such com­ modities came into effect on January 1, 1972. August 16. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The official buying rate for the U. S. dollar ( SKr 5.1350) was suspended, while the official selling rate for the U. S. dollar (SKr 5.2125) and the par value of the Swedish krona were maintained. As a result, the krona began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which had been S Kr 5 . 1 7 3 2 1 -U S $ 1. December 20. The exchange market was closed. It reopened the following day. 21. A central rate of S Kr 4.81290 per US$1 was established. December 27. The official margins for the U. S. do l­ lar were set at S Kr 4.7050 buying, and S Kr 4.9200 selling. December 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW ITZERLAND1 Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss F ranc as established by Decree of the Federal Coun c il on M ay 9, 1971 is 4%i6 (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The middle rate for the U. S. dollar fixed on December 20, 1971 is Sw F 3.84 = U S $ 1. The gold parity of the Swiss franc has not been altered accordingly. The Swiss Na t ional Bank maintains the U. S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 3.7535 buying, and Sw F 3.9265 selling, per US $ 1. The free market rate on December 31, 1971 was S wF 3.9150 per US $ 1. Market rates for other curren­ cies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.2 Exchange is controlled in respect of transactions with eight countries with wh ich Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regula­ tions. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments w i th seven countries or monetary a reas ;3 Switzerland also controls its payments with Eastern Germany, including East Be r l in. In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of con­ trolled payments. A ll settlements outside this sector ( inc lud ing those w i th a ll other countries), as we ll as certain settlements involving Egyp t ian pounds wh ich represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in Egypt, may be made freely at free market rates. Fore ign banknotes are negotiated freely in Swit­ zerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory F or a ll purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of M a r ch 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the P r inc ipa l i ty of Liechenstein w i th the Swiss customs terr i tory .4 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 The above-mentioned upper and lower limits for the U. S. dollar rate have been notified under the European Monetary Agreement (EMA ), of which Switzerland is a member. Corresponding upper and lower limits are operative in respect of the rates for the Swiss franc in terms of most other EMA currencies. 3 Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and, for certain specific payments only, with Cuba, Egypt, and Turkey. 4 For purposes of capital control, however, persons or companies domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are considered as nonresidents. Federal Coun c il acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Pub l ic Economy or the Federal Po l i t ical Department. The Swiss Na t ional Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together w i th the authorized banks, is entrusted w i th the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accordance w i th the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and /or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements w i th countries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements w i th Egypt may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts maintained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements w i th Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss Na t ional Bank. Outside the sector of con­ trolled payments, certain settlements w i th Tu rkey are subject to special regulations. In a ll other cases, settle­ ments are not subject to regulations involving prescrip­ tion of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of con­ trolled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia, which are centralized w i th the Swiss Na t ional Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those wh ich may be held w i th the Swiss Na t ional Bank and w i th authorized banks in Switzer­ land. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, wh ich are transferable only to other accounts of the same nation­ ality, and the accounts of Egypt, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned w i th transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above—may be trans­ ferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. W i th a few excep­ tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricul­ tural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW I T Z E R L A ND are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regu­ lations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled pay­ ments. Payments for imports from a ll other countries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; how­ ever, payments to Eastern Germany (including East Be r l in) and countries with which Switzerland has bilat­ eral payments agreements are con tro l led .5 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. Th is export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled pay­ ments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. appropriate, as soon as the subscription lists are closed) be converted into foreign currency.6 Banks are required to lodge with the Na t ional Bank reserves corresponding to 100 per cent of a ll Swiss franc deposits received from nonresidents after July 31, 1971 and they are not permitted to pay interest on such non­ resident funds, irrespective of maturity. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are dom i­ ciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zu r ich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (coins and bars are exempt). Import and export licenses are required for commer­ c ial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes during 1971 Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Trans­ fers of capital to and from other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 10 m i l l ion each, which require per­ mission; these include foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds denominated in Swiss francs and direct participa­ tions by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Bank credits in excess of Sw F 10 m i l l ion to nonresidents also are subject to approval and a ll proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper in amounts of Sw F 3 m i l l ion or more must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank for examination. A ll bond issues in Switzerland are subject to a system of voluntary issue control. A ll capital exports licensed by the Na t ional Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credit) must upon approval (or, where f5 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized property. 4 00 January 1. The approval criteria governing the pur­ chase of land in Switzerland by foreign nationals were eased. February 1. The Ordinance Concerning Fore ign Investment Funds came into force. Such funds cou ld place their securities only through banks. April 1. An amendment to the Currency A ct became law. It transferred the power to change the gold parity of the Swiss franc from the Parliament to the Cabinet, acting in close consultation w i th the Na t ional Bank. It also abolished the legal tender status of Swiss gold coins. May 5. The Na t ional Bank ceased its intervention in the foreign exchange market. May 7. An agreement w i th Czechoslovakia was signed providing that the existing clearing arrangement would be terminated. The agreement came into force on July 1, 1971, when settlements between Switzerland and Czechoslovakia were with immediate effect placed on a convertible currency basis. May 9. The gold parity of the Swiss franc was 6 The conversion requirement introduced on August 16, 1971 was modified with effect from February 14, 1972 and again from May 1, 1972. Henceforth, banks receiving the National Bank's license had to convert into U. S. dollars at the National Bank at least 25 per cent (increased to 40 per cent on May 1) of the Swiss franc amount of all loans or credits granted to, and notes taken up from, nonresident borrowers; these conversions took place at the rate of Sw F 3.9265 = US$1 (changed to Sw F 3.88 = US$1 on May 1). Furthermore, banks participating in new issues of medium-term notes (not bonds) were required from February 14, 1972 to place at least 60 per cent of the total amount with resident customers, and they were no longer per­ mitted to sell such new notes to nonresident banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution changed from 6% io (= 0 . 2 0 3 2 2 . . .) gram to 4%i6 (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The parity rate for the U . S. dollar was changed from Sw F 4.37282 to Sw F 4.0841 per US $ 1. The Na t ional Bank's limits for the U . S. dollar were changed from Sw F 4.295 buying and Sw F 4.445 selling, to Sw F 4.01 buying and Sw F 4.16 selling, per U S $ 1. June 15. The max imum amount of ind iv idual Swiss franc bond issues by nonresidents was increased from Sw F 60 m i l l ion to Sw F 80 m i l l ion. The regulations governing private placements by nonresidents of medium-term loans in the form of notes also were eased; the minimum denomination of each note was reduced from Sw F 100,000 to Sw F 50,000, and the prescribed ratio for their allocation to resident and non­ resident customers was abolished. June 25. The Na t ional Bank was empowered to engage in forward exchange operations for its own account; such transactions could not have a maturity in excess of three months. July 1. A revised banking law came into force. It was applicable also to foreign-controlled banks. August 9. Pending the entry into force of a supple­ mentary gentlemen's agreement, the major commercial banks agreed that the Na t ional Bank would block for a period of ten days the Swiss franc counterpart of the foreign exchange they sold to it. The amounts so steri­ lized could be used at any time to purchase U. S. do l­ lars from the Na t ional Bank. The arrangement was extended until September 25, when the first payments had to be made in accordance with the extraordinary m in imum reserve requirement agreed upon on August 16 (see below). August 16. The Na t ional Bank ceased its intervention in the foreign exchange market. The official buying rate for the U. S. dollar was suspended, while the official selling rate was maintained. Commerc ial banks contin­ ued to deal at unsupported rates. As a result, the Swiss franc began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. Previously, intervention had been taking place at Sw F 4.06 per U. S. dollar. August 16. A gentlemen's agreement between the Na t ional Bank and the Swiss Bankers' Association on extraordinary m in imum reserves and the payment of interest on foreign-held deposits came into effect. It provided that the Na t ional Bank could impose for three months a m in imum reserve requirement of up to 100 per cent on any increase after July 31, 1971 in banks' liabilities to nonresidents, net of any concurrent increase in banks' placements abroad (both foreign currency and Swiss franc placements, provided that the latter were used abroad). The reserve requirement could cover sight, time, and savings liabilities to banks and non- banks alike, except amounts of up to Sw F 50,000 on savings accounts. The m in imum reserves had to be held SW I T Z E R L A ND on noninterest-bearing accounts with the Na t ional Bank but could be used at any time for the purchase of U. S. dollars from the Na t ional Bank. The Na t ional Bank cou ld also forbid or l im it the payment of interest on the banks' new Swiss franc liabilities to nonresidents at less than six months. The Na t ional Bank immediately introduced a 100 per cent m in imum reserve requirement as set out above and prohibited the payment of interest on nonresident-held Swiss franc deposits accrued or accruing after Ju ly 31, 1971. On August 27, the interest ban was extended to cover a ll maturities. August 16. The Na t ional Bank informed commercial banks that henceforth all capital exports subject to licensing (except export credit) had to be converted into foreign currency as soon as they had been approved, or, where appropriate, as soon as subscription lists had been closed. August 23. Wh i le major exchange markets abroad reopened, the Na t ional Bank d id not resume foreign exchange transactions. Commerc ial banks remained free to deal in foreign currencies. The Swiss franc continued to float against the U. S. dollar. August 26. The major banks, in agreement with the Na t ional Bank, limited the conversion into free Swiss francs of U. S. dollar inflows that appeared to be of a speculative nature to US$2 m i l l ion a customer a day if the rate for the U. S. dollar should fall below Sw F 3.96, and to US$1 m i l l ion a customer a day if it should fall to or below Sw F 3.95. The counterpart of any conver­ sions in excess of these amounts would be blocked for three months on noninterest-bearing accounts in Swiss francs. This agreement was suspended from December 3 to December 8, when it was modified to limit sales of Swiss francs to individual customers to the equivalent of US$1 m i l l ion a day, irrespective of the ruling exchange rate. It was terminated on December 20. September 8. The Federal Government asked Pa r l ia­ ment for emergency authority to take various additional measures to defend the franc if this should again become necessary, particularly in the face of specula­ tive capital inflows. These powers were granted by Par­ liament on October 8. They included the power to impose negative interest rates on foreign funds and to declare the gentlemen's agreement with the large banks to be binding on all banks. September 28. The maximum amount of individual Swiss franc bond issues by nonresidents was increased from Sw F 80 m i l l ion to Sw F 100 m i l l ion. December 20. A new middle rate for the U. S. dollar of Sw F 3.84 was established. The intervention margins were widened to SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian A r ab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "para l le l" market with a nomin­ ally fluctuating rate. There are fixed official rates of LS 3.80 buying and LS 3.82 selling, per U S $ 1; official market rates for other currencies are quoted by the Exchange Office on the basis of the fixed rates for the U. S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies con­ cerned in international centers. The free market rates have been pegged since M a r ch 1970; on December 31, 1971, they were LS 4.30 buying, and LS 4.32 selling, per U S $ 1. In practice, the free market rate for the U. S. dollar is set by the Commercial Bank of Syria in con­ sultation with the Central Bank. The official market rate applies to exports of cotton and crude petroleum; imports by the M in is t ry of Defense; invisibles related to trade settled in the official market; remittances for study abroad of government- supported students; o il pipeline royalties; official trans­ fers; and government capital transactions.1 The parallel market rate applies to a ll other transactions. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of 2/io of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Po l icy with regard to imports and exports is deter­ mined by the Government through the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Adm in is tra­ tive Committee of the Exchange Office, a ll transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Cen­ tral Bank. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the pr ior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commer­ c ial Bank of Syria. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to a ll countries except those with which the Syrian A rab Republic has 1W i th effect from January 1, 1972, the application of the official market rate was restricted to receipts from cotton and crude petroleum exports and oil pipeline royalties and to payments for Syrian diplo­ matic missions abroad. 402 bilateral payments agreements 2 be obtained in the cur­ rency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" c u r r e n c y ,3 or in any other con­ vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, the G u lf States, Iran, Kuwa i t, Turkey, the Yemen A r ab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Prescription of cur­ rency requirements are not applied to outgoing pay­ ments. A ll payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the pr ior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian A r ab Republic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Residents and nonresidents may also keep accounts in foreign currencies in the Syrian A r ab Republic, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital; transfers abroad from these accounts are made freely. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in through the parallel market and amounts correspond­ ing to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for certain expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rho­ desia, or South A f r i ca are prohibited. M any basic com­ modities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies (including the successor organizations to S I M E X, particularly the G en­ eral Organization for Trade and A r t isan Products— G O T A) or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports of some other commodities are reserved for "unions of industries." Imports are divided 2 Bulgaria, Ceylon, mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hungary, North Korea. Poland, Rumania, Spain, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Leba­ nese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 4 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution into three main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited L i s t, which com­ prises some 100 tariff items —mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products;5 (2) imports on a Suspended L is t, which comprises some 300 tariff items of less essential goods which are tem­ porarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons;5 and (3) a ll imports not included in the above two lists. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in payments agreement coun­ tries through compensation transactions involving the export of Syrian industrial or mineral products. V i r t u­ ally a ll imports must be made direct from the country of or ig in, without the intermediary of any firm con­ ducting a business established outside the Syrian A r ab Republic; the M in i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of or ig in. Certain consumer goods that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported from the Federal Republic of Germany, the Un i ted K ingdom, or the Un i ted States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the quality higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. A ll permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require ind iv idual import licenses before the placing of orders. The state trading agencies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. Goods included in the Suspended L ist may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special ind iv idual license from the M in i s t ry of Economy and Fore ign Trade, and with the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Industry or the M in i s t ry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited L is ts) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi A r ab ia are not subject to license, in accordance with the A r ab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian A r ab Republic with some of these coun­ tries. These imports include a l1 agricultural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian A r ab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import licenses, wh ich cannot exceed the value of LS 100,000 (except for capital goods), the importer must provide evidence of his foreign exchange holdings abroad on Decem­ ber 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days. Licenses to import specified con­ sumer goods, raw materials, and semifinished goods, up to a value of LS 12,000 for a six-month period, are 5 The coverage of the Prohibited and Suspended Lists, which had already been reduced in 1971, was further narrowed on January 1, 1972. S Y R I AN A R AB R E P U B L IC freely granted to traders and industrialists whose activity is certified by the Chamber of Commerce or by the Chamber of Industry. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are neither prohibited nor suspended are per­ mitted without a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro­ leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for a ll imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the tariff, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the tariff, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian har­ bo rs ), and (6) an ocean tax of %o of 1 per cent of the value of imports for a ll goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Exchange licenses are required to make import pay­ ments through the official market. Payments for imports may be made by letters of credit, time drafts, or bills for collection, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer submits to the Commerc ial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. The Commerc ial Bank of Syria then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. App roval by the Exchange Office is currently not required. Certain delays may occur in the provision of foreign exchange for imports on a collection basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for official invisibles for servicing govern­ ment debt and for government-supported study abroad may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonresident intermediaries are nontransferable and payable in Syrian pounds only. The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected loca l ly. A ll other payments for invisibles must be made through the free market. Residents traveling abroad may take with them for­ eign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a tr ip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a tr ip; for travel to other A r ab countries (except A lge r ia, the L iby an A r ab Republic, Mo rocco, the Sudan, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including A lge r ia, the L ibyan A r ab Republic, Mo rocco, the Sudan, and Tun i s ia ), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. F or travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned. Travelers to Iraq, Jordan, and other countries of the A r ab Common 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution S Y R I AN A R AB R E P U B L IC Market may, instead of taking up the above-mentioned travel allocations in foreign currency, export Syrian currency up to the amount of the allowance to which they are entitled. On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. F ixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian A r ab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresi­ dents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In a ll cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the l im it of the declaration they have made when enter­ ing the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic; the amount of Syrian cur­ rency taken out may not exceed LS 100. F or additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Au tho r i ty. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of a ll goods of foreign origin require licenses. F or a ll other exports, licenses are not required. F or a ll private exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian A r ab Republic and surrender them to the Exchange Office within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of exports of cotton and crude petroleum must be surrendered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale at the free market rate. Certain manufactured exports receive sub­ sidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 121/2 per cent ad valorem. A ll exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. A ll the above taxes are collected by the customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expenditures of o il companies (but not royalties),6 must be sold in the free market. Nonresidents entering 8 With effect from January 1, 1971 receipts from royalties also were sold on the free market. 404 the Syrian A r ab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital A ll inward and outward capital transfers, except those of the Government, take place through the free market. Imports of capital in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether resi­ dents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Special facilities for investment of A r ab capital in the Syrian A r ab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree N o. 348 of Decem­ ber 29, 1969. Other facilities permitting residents and nonresidents of any nationality to open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian A r ab Republic with imported funds are based on Decree N o. 779 of A p r il 1, 1970 and Order N o. 191 of A p r il 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian A r ab Republic without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with world free market prices. Imports and exports of gold are free from import or export licensing. Import payments, however, require the approval of the Exchange Office, wh ich is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1971 January 9. Decree N o. 12 permitted the importation of a large number of agricultural products even if included in the Prohibited or Suspended Lists or reserved for public trading agencies. January 21. Decree N o. 32 allowed Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian A r ab Republic or abroad, to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports were paid for with foreign exchange held abroad by the importers. Import licenses were granted against presen­ tation of a document stating the amount of funds held abroad on December 31, 1970. Licenses could not exceed LS 100,000, except for capital goods. February 15. C i rcu lar N o. 1138 /9 /4 of the M in i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade announced that import licenses would be granted freely to importers who obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days. February 16. Order N o. 66 allowed the importation of some further items (wheat, flour, meat, preserved ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February foods, etc.) included in the Prohibited or Suspended Lists. February 18. Order N o. 68 allowed the importation of corn, barley, and wheat also from countries other than those of or ig in. 18. Decree-Law N o. 18 established the Pub l ic Organization for the Free Zones of Syr ia. F i rms operating in the free zones would be exempt from a ll import restrictions and exchange controls. February 25. Decree N o. 38 authorized A r ab and foreign firms participating in the International Trade F a ir of Damascus to import products included in the Prohibited or Suspended Lists. March 23. Decree N o. 120 added to the list of items importable against "own foreign exchange" a large num­ ber of animal products, foodstuffs, construction mate­ rials, and electric appliances. March 27. Decree N o. 125 removed from the P ro­ hibited Import L ist animal fats, sunflower o i l, and dried beans. March 31. Decree N o. 128 exempted trade with member countries of the A rab Common Market from a ll administrative restrictions, trade taxes, and duties. April 12. Decree N o. 146 established a commercial center for the sale of imported goods to foreigners against foreign exchange. April 15. Decree N o. 149 allowed the importation of cement, animal fats, caustic soda, and vegetable oils, also from countries other than those of origin. June 5-15. A number of measures were taken with regard to the scope of the official exchange market. A ll import payments, with the exception of those for defense materials, and a ll export receipts, except those from cotton and crude petroleum, were shifted from the official to the parallel market. C i rcu lar N o. 4 3 5 3 / 4 /9 provided that customs duties would continue to be levied on the basis of the Syrian pound value calculated at the official rate. Previously, about two thirds of all imports and about three fourths of all exports were effected at the official rate, as were all official nontrade transactions. S Y R I AN A R AB R E P U B L IC July 5. Decree N o. 267 allowed traders and indus­ trialists whose activity was certified by the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Industry, respectively, to obtain import licenses for the commodities listed in the Annex to the Decree up to a maximum value of LS 12,000 for each six-month period; licenses could be renewed at expiration and were to be used to import not less than four tariff items. The items listed in the Annex included a large number of consumer goods, raw mate­ rials, and semifinished goods. August 19. Instruction N o. 343 modified Decree N o. 348 of December 29, 1969, and specified the documents to be presented together with the applications of non­ resident Syrians and Arabs intending to invest funds in the Syrian A rab Republic. August 23. The official market rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained unchanged at LS 3.80 buying and LS 3.82 selling, and the parallel market rates at LS 4.30 buying and LS 4.32 selling. September 21. C i rcu lar 8 8 4 2 / 4 /9 announced that import duties and taxes would be levied on the basis of the Syrian pound value calculated at the parallel market rate, thereby modifying C i rcu lar N o. 4 3 5 3 / 4 /9 of June 5, 1971. October 2. Decree N o. 402 permitted the importation of buses for public use, provided they were not more than two years o ld. October 18. Decree N o. 442 added to the list of items importable against "own foreign exchange" a large num­ ber of capital goods for industrial use. December 16. Tape recorders were removed from the list of prohibited imports. December 21. The official market rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained unchanged at LS 3.80 buying and LS 3.82 selling, and the parallel market rates at LS 4.30 buying and LS 4.32 selling. December 30. Order N o. 571 shifted additional trans­ actions from the official to the parallel market, with effect from January 1, 1972. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Tan­ zania Sh i l l ing. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is T Sh 7.14286 = US $ 1. Tanzania has availed itself of wider margins. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government and w i th authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except Uganda banknotes) against Tanzania shillings at par. East A f r i c an shillings, which have ceased to be legal tender, may still be exchanged at par by holders in Tanzania at all commercial banks. The authorized banks carry out forward exchange contracts with importers and exporters. Such contracts for periods exceeding three months require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. The authorized banks may cover their net forward position with the Bank of Tanzania. Administration of Control The M in is ter for Finance has delegated the admin­ istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Au thor i ty for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the authorized banks. On the mainland, import and export control is admin­ istered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Bank of Tanzania. The responsibility for issuing spe­ cific import and export licenses rests with the Con­ troller, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applica­ tions for most commodities, however, must be submitted through the State Trading Corporation or require the endorsement of another state trading agency. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade con­ trols; a ll imports and the principal exports are made by state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trad ing Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling A r ea and main­ tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United K ingdom. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling A r ea may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Sterling A r ea Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling A r ea c u r r e n c y ;1 receipts from such countries must be obtained in Tan­ zania shillings from a Sterling A r ea Account in T an­ zania or in any other Sterling A r ea currency. Au thor ized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling 1 With the further exception that personal remittances to residents of India and Pakistan must be made in the currency of the bene­ ficiary's country of residence. 406 A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in T an­ zania shillings to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Tanzania, or in any other non-Sterling A r ea currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from coun­ tries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an Ex ternal Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Tanzania shillings from an Ex ternal Account in Tanzania, or in any other specified cur­ rency 2 that is not a Sterling A r ea currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Remit­ tances to South A f r i ca are prohibited, with the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzania or by the East A f r i c an Commun i ty organi­ zations. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling A rea countries. They may be credited freely with a ll authorized payments to such Sterling A r ea coun­ tries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other Sterling A r ea Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling A r ea currency. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling A r ea and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea to Tanzanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling A r ea Accounts in Tanzania, for purchases of any Sterling A r ea currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is tempo­ rar i ly resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling A r ea country has been obtained, Sterling A r ea Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling A r e a, and for purchases in Tanzania of any non-Sterling A r ea currency from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling A r ea currency (other than Rhodesian currency) by nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea to authorized dealers. Provided that the permission 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Ceylon rupees, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kr6nur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling A r ea country has been obtained, Ex ternal Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling A r ea Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling A r ea country, and for purchases of non-Sterling A rea currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of other countries are credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances on B locked Accounts belonging to emigrants may be used for the purchase in Tanzania of government bonds payable in Tanzania shillings and redeemable not earlier than five years from the date of acquisition; interest and redemp­ tion proceeds are transferable. Subject to individual per­ mission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and to Blocked Accounts in K enya and Uganda, require prior approval. imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from a ll sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Most imports from K enya and Uganda are unrestricted but some require a specific license (goods listed in the F i f th Schedule to the Open General License) and others can only be imported from Kenya and Uganda by the State Trad ing Corporation and persons acting as agents for the Corpora t ion (goods listed in the Second and T h i rd Schedules, respectively). Specific import licenses are required for many commodities or groups of commodi­ ties (listed in the Fou r th Schedule to the Open General License) from F irst Schedule countries, i. e., Common­ wealth countries (other than Kenya and Uganda). G A TT member countries except Japan, and countries with which trade agreements are in f o r c e ;3 other goods from these countries may be imported without licenses. A ll imports from other countries, including Japan, require a specific license. A ll imports to the mainland from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods or ig i­ nate outside Zanzibar. A ll imports from South A f r i c a, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese consumer goods are licensed up to a certain proportion of the value of total exports to that country. App l ica t ions to import most goods originating outside K enya and Uganda must be submitted through the State T rad ing Corporation and these may be imported only by or through that Corporation. A ll imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufactured goods when imported from and originating in Kenya. F or some of these commodities, the tax is applicable 3 Bulgaria, Burundi, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Repub­ lic of Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. T A N Z A N IA also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at 10 per cent, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent of the c. i. f. value plus import duty. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is pro­ vided automatically by an authorized bank upon appli­ cation and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments more than six months in advance of shipment, as well as most imports financed by suppliers' credit, require individual exchange control approval. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to a ll countries are controlled. Au thor ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administra­ tively, and most current payments are in fact unre­ stricted. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens work­ ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania even­ tually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33% per cent of their monthly salary uncommitted to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33% per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are con­ sidered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Speci­ fied categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncom­ mitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Cap i ta l, below). There is a basic allowance for travel to countries out­ side East A f r i ca of T Sh 2,000 a person every three years for persons aged 12 or older; half of this amount is available to children aged 3 to 11 years. Travelers to destinations in Burund i, E th iop ia, Kenya, M a l aw i, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, Uganda, the Republic of Zaire, and Zambia are restricted to T Sh 500 a year. Applications for business, education, and health travel have to be referred to the Bank of Tanzania. Requests for additional amounts are examined on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out travelers checks or letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r i c a, Portugal, a ll Portuguese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the main­ land, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. 4 07 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T A N Z A N IA A ll pr inc ipal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trad ing Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected in specified cur­ rencies (see footnote 2) within six months from the date of exportation and must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Tanzania shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 100 in value for each returning traveler. Capital Capital transfers to a ll countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to a ll countries are approved by authorized banks; a ll other capital transfers require individual exchange con­ trol approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may trans­ fer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 50,000 for each household. A ll remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account or otherwise brought under control; they may then be invested in approved T an- zanian securities or placed on bank deposit. Income from such investments is transferable upon accrual, and redemption proceeds become transferable upon maturity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. Furthermore, any assets in excess of the in i t ial emigration allowance of T Sh 50,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount w i ll be con­ sidered for repatriation. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec­ tion) A c t, 1963. Applications for certificates are pro­ cessed by the Tanzania Investment and Industrial P ro­ motion Committee, whose secretariat is established in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industries. In respect of large investments, the Committee usually requires major­ ity participation by Tanzanian capital. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. A ll imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi­ dents of Tanzanian securities from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The 408 income from such securities is remittable, as may be the proceeds of disinvestment. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not normally per­ mitted. A ll loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in T an­ zania for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author­ ized industrial and professional users are not allowed to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to ind iv idual licensing. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus­ trial and professional users; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1971 March 17. Exchange control was extended to Kenya and Uganda. Restrictions were imposed on capital trans­ fers to K enya and Uganda. A total ban was imposed on the export or import of Tanzania banknotes by travelers. Travelers to K enya and Uganda henceforth required exchange allocations. Residents holding assets in Kenya and Uganda were allowed to retain these, but they were required to declare them, together with any sterling assets held in countries outside East A f r i c a, to the Bank of Tanzania before M ay 1, 1971. April 26. Travelers were allowed to bring in or take out Tanzania currency up to T Sh 100 a person a trip. June 19. Residents required the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania in order to own or acquire invest­ ments abroad. The Bank of Tanzania was empowered to require any such investment to be surrendered at a price corresponding to its market value. August 25. The Tanzania shilling was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relation­ ship for which was maintained at T Sh 7.14286 = U S $ 1. September 21. An overall quota of T Sh 1 m i l l ion was imposed on gold imports. November 8. Imports of new cars and cars less than three years' old were banned. November 26. An import control unit which would be responsible for processing a ll import applications was established in the Bank of Tanzan ia. December 13. The tourist travel allowance for resi­ dents going outside East A f r i ca was reduced from T Sh 4,000 to T Sh 2,000 once in every three years, and for destinations in neighboring countries (Burundi, E th iop ia, Kenya, M a l aw i, Mozambique, Rwanda, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Somalia, the Sudan, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia) the allowance was reduced from T Sh 1,000 to T Sh 500 a year. A ny use of the latter allocation would be charged against the allowance for other countries. December 22. The par value of the Tanzania shilling was changed from 0.124414 gram to 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Tanzania shilling. The effective parity re­ lationship for the U. S. dollar became T Sh 7.14286 = US$1 or T Sh 1 = US$0.140000. Tanzania availed itself of wider margins. T A N Z A N IA 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THA ILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht. There is an Exchange Equa l iza t ion Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U. S. dollars with commercial banks. As at December 31, 1971, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U. S. dollars were B 20.875 buying, and B 20.90 selling, per U S $ 1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.855 buying, and B 21.00 selling, per U S $ 1. The authorized banks' rates for sterling are based on their buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the New Y o rk rates for sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Tha i land on behalf of the M in i s t ry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to author­ ized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized com­ panies) and to authorized persons. A ll incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. A ll out­ going payments are subject to approval (given auto­ matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments). Imports of gold require a license issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the M in is t ry of Econom ic Affairs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur­ rency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; payments are made largely in sterling and related cur­ rencies or in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans­ ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Tha i land, or T h ai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfera­ ble Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of for­ eign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include pro­ ceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in 410 Tha i land, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of T h ai nationality, and funds that cannot be identified as eligible for credit to a Transferable Accoun t. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Tha i land; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a T h ai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely; but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. A ll imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods pro­ duced in Tha i land. Import licenses are va l id for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Tha i land, which is given for a ll bona fide transactions, is required for advance pay­ ments in excess of US$1 ,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addi­ tion to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceed­ ing B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the M in i s t ry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, wh ich is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Tha i land; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Tha i land. Apa rt from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educa­ tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. F or foreign travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain maximum limits. F or persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva­ lent of US$630, or US$40 a day for not more than 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi­ tional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for entertain­ ment expenses. The amount of foreign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for family remittances is US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the Un i ted States and US$150 a month for each transferor for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Tha i land upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport) or for­ eign currency exceeding US$140 (US$280 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. Persons in transit may take out foreign currency in an amount not exceed­ ing that wh ich they brought i n, after deduction of a reasonable amount of expenditure incurred loca l ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of paddy are prohibited and a ll exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an individual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 A ll other commodities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station, and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. Th is certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their sur­ render must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight b i ll is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance b i l l, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments up to any value but require a "certificate of exportation" to take out any other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of a few types of rice and rice products is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author­ ized agent. No percon may br ing into Tha i land local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. T H A I L A ND Capital A ll outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move­ ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign invest­ ments in Tha i land can be accorded preferential treat­ ment under the Industrial Investment A ct of Febru­ ary 10, 1962; this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is con­ sidered on the merits of each case; approval is nor­ mally granted if it can be shown that the funds o r ig i­ nated abroad. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Tha i land approval. A ll other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The public sector requires the approval of the Na t ional Econom ic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. F or gold bu l l ion, the M in is t ry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports; the quota for the two-year period beginning February 4, 1971 is 480,000 troy ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the M in i s t ry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. Exports of gold bullion are pro­ hibited, while those of gold ornaments, when not made by foreign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. Foreign tourists may without a certificate of exportation take out gold ornaments up to any value. The conveyance of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1971 1 Gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified ani­ mals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. February 4. An import quota of 480,000 troy ounces of gold was announced for the two-year period 1971-72. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T H A I L A ND March 12. Imports of white cement and white clinker required a license. April 14. R ice sales on long-term credit terms were permitted on a government-to-government basis. April 21. The export premiums (taxes) on a ll grades of rice except those of 100 per cent and 5 per cent were removed. On M ay 19, those on 100 per cent and 5 per cent parboiled rice also were lifted. May 7. Imports of white rice, glutinous rice, paddy, processed natural rice or fortified rice, and rice prod-, ucts thereof, required a license. May 21. Steel rods and bars required an import license, but ceased to be subject to export control. June 21. To promote credit sales by private export­ ers, the prescribed terms of payment for rice exports were eased; 180-day terms were permitted for 10 per cent milled rice. August 4. The requirement of receipt of a confirmed irrevocable letter of credit or prepayment prior to exportation was relaxed for most communist countries; only exports to mainland Ch ina and Inner Mongo l ia remained subject to the requirement. August 23. The baht remained pegged to the U. S. dollar. The Exchange Equalization Fund stood ready, as before, to buy and sell U. S. dollars in spot transac­ tions w i th commercial banks at B 20.875 and B 20.90 per U S $ 1, respectively. August 24. The prohibition on the exportation of rice bran was relaxed. Extracted rice bran, with an o il content of not more than 3 per cent, was freed from the requirement of export license. September 6. A 90 per cent reduction was given on the import duty for raw materials and other goods to be used in manufacturing products for export, provided that the goods were processed or assembled and exported within 12 months of entry. A deposit equal to that of the fu ll rate of duty had to be lodged with the customs until export took place. October 1. The Government increased the rebates granted to Malaysian and Singapore importers of Thai rice. October 8. Trade controls over aluminum in any form other than scrap were relaxed. October 11. The amount of local tea leaves to be purchased by importers of tea leaves was increased from 25 per cent to 40 per cent. Importers of instant tea were required to purchase local product up to 50 per cent of the total amount imported. October 30. Imports of used motorcycles, paper, kraft paper, and corrugated paper required a license. December 10. Exports of gunny bags and hessian cloth made of jute yarn were prohibited, w i th minor exceptions for samples, packing, and use in transpor­ tation. The restrictions on gunny bags were eased on December 18. December 18. Foreign tourists were permitted to take out with them precious stones and gold and plat­ inum ornaments up to any value; other persons contin­ ued to require a certificate of exportation when the value of such goods exceeded B 5,000. December 20. The baht remained pegged to the U. S. dollar. The Exchange Equalization F u nd stood ready, as before, to buy and sell U. S. dollars in spot trans­ actions with commercial banks at B 20.875 and B 20.90 per US $ 1, respectively. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 F rench franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i.e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, e tc .), as we ll as cur­ rent payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settle­ ments with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub­ l ic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Togo itself, are con­ sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Finance, Economy, and Planning, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the solicit- n The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. ing of funds in Togo for placement in foreign coun­ tries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The B C E AO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information neces­ sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of C om­ merce, Industry, and Tour ism, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance, E con­ omy, and Planning. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a; since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settle­ ments w i th France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories except the French Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera­ tions Account countries of the French F ranc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with a ll other countries are usually made through cor­ respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of C FA banknotes, French bank­ notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for credits to F inanc ial Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with B C E AO banknotes mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and a ll imports of Portuguese or South A f r i c an origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea may be made freely, but require the prior authoriza­ tion of the M in i s t ry of Commerce, Industry, and Tou r ism. Imports from a ll other countries require ind i­ vidual import licenses. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a joint French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T O GO Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost a ll requests for import licenses from a ll sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional on the purchase of a quantity of the local product equal to the quantity to be imported. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 125,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu­ mentary credit is opened or eight days before the pay­ ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Cer ta in payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay­ ments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac­ tion has been approved or does not require authoriza­ tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. F or tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 100,000 a person a trip ( C F AF 50,000 for children under ten) for two trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered. F or business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of C F AF 200,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro­ vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maxi­ mum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes but if going to a country that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i on they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank­ notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000; the former amount is adjusted for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by debit to a F inanc ial Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Fore ign Currency and for any repurchases 414 of foreign currency up to C F AF 25,000 with C FA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to a ll countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portugal and South A f r i ca are prohibited. O P AT (Office des produits agricoles du Togo) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other commodities. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; authorized dia­ mond purchasing offices, however, may retain such for­ eign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. A ll export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A rea. Resident travelers must within eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks they bring in. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Togo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea are free of exchange control; capital trans­ fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis­ ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions them­ selves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities and those over the soliciting of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French T e r r i- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, and those other countries whose institute of issue is l inked with the F rench Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. There also are special controls applicable to a ll countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. A ll investments abroad by residents of Togo require pr ior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance .2 Fore ign direct investments in Togo 3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post­ ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the M in is ter. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance and Economy within 20 days following each operation. D irect investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enter­ prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale, of for­ eign securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, adver­ tising, or offering for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrow ing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to pr ior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance works abroad or by international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed C F AF 100 m i l l ion. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, requires the pr ior authorization of the M in is te r; exempt from this requirement are loans con­ stituting a direct investment, loans taken up by author­ ized banks, and any loans exempted by the M in is ter. Lend ing abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The lending of C FA francs to nonresi- a Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 3 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub­ sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. T O GO dents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. A l s o, certain enterprises, in accord­ ance with their importance to the economic develop­ ment of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law N o. 65-10 of Ju ly 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "pr ior i ty enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agree­ ment (convention d'etablissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. F i rms that undertake to invest at least C F AF 20 m i l l ion may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of a ll investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require pr ior authoriza­ tion by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 February 18. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 75,000 a person a year to C F AF 75,000 a person a trip, for two trips a year. The exchange allocation for business travel was increased to the equivalent of C F AF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a l im it of C F AF 200,000 a trip. The foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) was abolished. March 15. Travelers could freely import and export gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. June 16. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was further increased to the equivalent of C F AF 100,000 a person a trip, for two trips a year. September 6. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. (This measure was revoked on January 6, 1972.) 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T O GO September 7. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Togo. The exchange rate for the French franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0 . 0 2, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were intro­ duced, wh ich were related to the financial franc mar­ ket. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by for­ eign correspondents of authorized banks henceforth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. December 10. W i th certain exceptions, Fore ign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs cou ld only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on December 31.) December 20. The lending of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years was freely permitted. December 20. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. December 20. Nonresident physical persons receiving to the credit of a Foreign Account in Francs scholar­ ships, pensions, and rentes paid by the Togolese Gov­ ernment, foreign governments, or Togolese or foreign public bodies were permitted to debit these accounts (up to the amount of the scholarships, pensions, and rentes received) for withdrawals of B C E AO banknotes and for any payment in favor of a resident. December 20. Certain payments to residents were specified that could be made without conversion (sans arbitrage) to the debit of Foreign Accounts in Francs opened by physical persons pr ior to September 8, 1971. December 24. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = US $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per T r in idad and Tobago Do l la r. The Central Bank of T r in idad and Tobago maintains a fixed official relation­ ship with sterling of TT$4 .80 = <£1. Sterling exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25 ,000 and above, and these as we ll as transac­ tions in non-Sterling A r ea currencies are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks are ¥2 of 1 per cent on outward transfers and n il on inward transfers. A ll other exchange transactions in T r in idad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. Ster­ ling exchange transactions through commercial banks are at present subject to varying exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4 .80 = £1 and EC$4 .80 = £, 1 (see below) and charge commis­ sions of % of 1 per cent and ¥us of 1 per cent, respec­ tively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers of , £ 5 0 , 0 00 or more. Exchange rates for other con­ vertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their closing quotations of the previous day in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or minus the above charges. The banks' buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 (net of exchange charges) were T T$ 187.818 and T T$ 189.588 per US$100. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty (East Caribbean dollars) and the central banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in T r in idad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrange­ ment w i th the monetary authorities in those areas the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities at par and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment w i th respect to notes of the Central Bank of T r in idad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4 .80 = £ 1 .* This corresponds to a relationship to the U. S. dollar of E C$ 1.8421 = US $ 1. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is delegated in part to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce D iv i s ion of the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compul- * The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, pursuant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary unit of Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Grenada; there are no restrictions on the movement of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. sory surrender of foreign c u r r e n c y2 and for control over both current and capital transactions.3 A ll over­ seas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resi­ dent banks to nonresidents and local nonresident- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Tr in idad and Tobago is a member of the Sterling A r ea and maintains prescription of currency require­ ments similar in certain respects to those of the Un i ted K ingdom, although South A f r i ca has been excluded from T r in idad and Tobago's definition of the Sterling A r ea and a ll currencies other than the T r in idad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. Settle­ ments with residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea may be made in T r in idad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling A rea currencies. Au thor ized payments, including payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling A r e a, or by crediting an External Account in T r in idad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling A r ea currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rho­ desia must be received in sterling from an Ex ternal Account in any other part of the Sterling A r e a, or by debiting an Ex ternal Account in T r in idad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency 4 other than Rho­ desian currency. Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: Ster­ l ing A r ea Accounts, External Accounts, and B locked Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts may be opened by commer­ c ial banks for residents of the Sterling A r ea who are resident outside T r in idad and Tobago. They may be credited, inter a l ia, with authorized payments to any Sterling A r ea country (except South A f r ica ). External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling A r e a, approved by the exchange control 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO authorities; with transfers from other Ex ternal Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and non- Sterling A r ea currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of non-Sterling A r ea currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to Ex ternal Account sterling and may be transferred between resi­ dents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a. Blocked Accounts may be credited w i th funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro­ ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in T r in idad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. B locked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually w i th in five years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an Ex ternal Accoun t. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for imports from South A f r i c a. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. F or import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) A lb an i a, Bulgaria, main­ land Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, H u n­ gary, No r th Ko rea, Poland, Rumania, Yugos lav ia, and the U. S. S. R .; and (2) a ll other countries, including the Un i ted K ingdom but excepting Rhodesia and South A f r i c a. The import regulations include prohibition or string­ ent control, state trading, ind iv idual licensing, and open general license. (1) Some of the ma in imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. F i r e­ arms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or r ig id ly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity sub­ ject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana under government contracts, at agreed prices.5 (3) A ll commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an ind i­ v idual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan­ nels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 418 (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, and the U. S. S. R. A ll imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted freely for imports from Czechoslovakia, Po land, and Yugoslavia of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. F or the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rho­ desia and South Africa. F or imports from these coun­ tries, a "negative" list is published wh ich lists a ll goods subject to ind iv idual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within the Caribbean Free Trade Association ( C A R I F T A ), of which T r in idad and Tobago is a member.) A ll other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no d iscr im i­ nation is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, w i th the exception that C A R I F TA commitments are taken into account. Payments for a ll imports require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied w i th, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. App l ica t ions for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen­ tary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Goverment, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2 ,000 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out T r in idad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of £ 10 (TT$48 .00 ). Travelers who are regarded as residents of T r in idad and Tobago may export part or a ll of their basic travel allowance (TT$2,000) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting T r in idad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for exports to South A f r i c a. Exports of cer­ tain listed goods require an ind iv idual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in T r in id ad and Tobago, as we ll as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of a ll other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por­ tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com­ panies operating in T r in idad and Tobago repatriate for­ eign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in T r in idad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign cur­ rency wh ich are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in T r in idad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of <£10 (TT$48 .00 ). Fore ign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Cap i tal transfers from T r in idad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay­ ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and em i­ gration allowances are approved up to specified l im i ts. F or transactions in securities, authorized depositories have been appointed in T r in idad and Tobago, and deal­ ings in securities conform in certain other respects to the practice in the Un i ted K ingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of a ll securities other than securities expressed in T r in idad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is per­ mitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred pr ior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest­ ments owned by nonresidents of T r in idad and Tobago may not ord inar i ly be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a B locked Account (see section on N o n­ resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO capital invested in T r in idad and Tobago after Janu­ ary 1950 may be repatriated together w i th capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per­ sons resident outside T r in idad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro­ vided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in for­ eign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling A r e a. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside T r in idad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, w i th the pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside T r in idad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irre­ deemable or not redeemable within five years from the date of purchase. The laws of T r in idad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the A l iens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to ho ld shares in local companies. Pros­ pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in T r in idad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it w i ll be either a net earner or a net saver of any cur­ rency other than the T r in idad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment), or alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justi­ fied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incen­ tive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. Th is provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer indus­ tries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in T r in idad and Tobago or which are not being con­ ducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for future development. Eve ry pioneer manufacturer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other p r iv i­ leges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or a ll of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of T r in idad and Tobago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency (including sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duty) or 25 per cent (general duty). They are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1971 Du r ing the year a number of commodities were added to those requiring a specific import license. August 16. The fixed relationship w i th sterling of TT$4 .80 = <£ 1 was maintained, and the commission charges for transactions in sterling remained unchanged. As a result, the T r in id ad and Tobago dollar began to appreciate in terms of the U . S. do l lar, the effective parity relationship for wh ich had been TT$2 .00 = U S $ 1. November 12. The Exchange Con t rol A c t, 1970 was amended on m inor points of detail by the Exchange Con t rol (Amendment) A c t, 1971. November 12. The Exchange Con t rol A c t, 1970, November wh ich had been enacted on Ju ly 21, 1970, was pro­ claimed. It came into operation on November 15, 1971. The act treated Sterling A r ea currencies other than the T r in idad and Tobago dollar as foreign currencies and thus provided that the exchange control regulations were applicable to a ll countries other than T r in idad and Tobago. Exchange control had already been applied to the Sterling A r ea de facto since M ay 19, 1970. 15. Residents owning foreign securities (including Sterling A r ea securities) were required to register their holdings w i th an authorized depository. November 15. The Exchange Con t rol (Declarations and Evidence) Order, 1971 and the Exchange Con t rol (Securities) Regulations, 1971 were issued. They dealt, among other things, w i th the issue of securities, the transfer of securities and coupons, and the duties of authorized depositories w i th respect to certificates of title to securities. 15. Add i t ion al exchange con trol approval authority was delegated to authorized banks. The basic travel allocation was increased from T T$ 1,200 to TT$2 ,000 a person a year. Basic allocations for certain other travel and certain study abroad also were increased. November December 20. Fore ign exchange dealings were sus­ pended. They were resumed on December 23. December 23. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The fixed relationship w i th sterling of TT$4 .80 = £ 1 also was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became T T$ 1.84211 = US$1. (On January 4, 1972 T r in idad and Tobago availed itself of wider margins.) T R I N I D AD A ND T O B A GO Th is right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions. (a) The right w i ll not normally apply to the pur­ chase of shares on a stock exchange unless this pur­ chase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment d id not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right w i ll be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident-controlled local com­ panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of T r in idad and Tobago. Gold G o ld is defined by the Exchange Con t rol A c t, 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an author­ ized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surren­ dered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of T r in idad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in T r in idad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Con t rol on the import and export of gold is adminis­ tered by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and author­ ized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential duty) or 15 per cent (general duty), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential 4 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian D ina r. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar is D 1 = US$2.06803, and Tun is ia avails itself of wider margins. Buy ing and selling rates for the French franc (the commercial franc and the financial franc) and certain other convertible cu r renc ie s1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tun is ia. The buying and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade D iv i s ion of the M in i s t ry of Economic Affairs, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Suppliers' credits are screened by the Directorate-General of External Finance in the M in i s t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Tun is ia is part of the French F ranc A r e a. F or pay­ ment purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French F ranc A r ea coun t r ies ;2 (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries w i th wh ich Tun is ia has concluded bilateral payments agreements (Bulgaria, mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Ge r­ many, Hungary, India, Po land, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R . ); and (3) the area of convertibility, com­ prising a ll other countries.3 Settlements with countries in the French F ranc A r ea are made in any currency of that A r e a; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Po land, and Rumania, in rupees with India, in Tunisian dinars with the U. S. S. R ., and in Swiss agreement francs with main­ land Ch in a; and with countries in the area of con­ vertibility, generally in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in Tun is ian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must normally be made, in accordance with the foregoing, on the basis of the country of or ig in; however, a ll imports shipped from other countries of the French Franc A r e a, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in French francs. Under a triangular compensation agreement with B u l- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 France, the 14 countries whose institutes of issue maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury, and Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. pT he foreign area comprises the countries under (2) and (3). garia and India, settlements are cleared through a Special Account at the Bank of Bulgaria. Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited. Nonresident Accounts French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French F ranc A r e a. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in F rench francs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies (see footnote 1 ); with transfers from other French F ranc A r ea Ex ternal Accounts; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for a ll settlements or transfers effected within the French F ranc A r e a. Accounts held in F rench francs may be credited freely with French francs transferred by a non­ resident to the account holder; with proceeds in F rench francs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travel­ ers checks payable either in French francs or in con­ vertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or trans­ fers effected within the French F ranc A r e a. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc A r ea but who are staying temporarily in Tun is ia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of F rench francs or other convertible currencies; with transfers from other French Franc A r ea Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distributions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds from sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in a ll cases such funds accrue in Tun is ia; and with repayments of loans granted from the same account. They may be debited freely for transfer to another French Franc A r ea Internal Account held by the same person; for l iv ing expenses in Tun is ia of the holder and his family; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tun is ia; for purchases in Tun is ia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchases, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for author­ ized imports from these countries and with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited freely for payments of any k ind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gainfully employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of credit­ ing a ll proceeds accruing in Tun is ia to nonresidents which may not be credited to other nonresident accounts either in accordance with a general or an individual license of the Central Bank of Tun is ia. These accounts may also be credited upon departure with bank balances and sales proceeds of real estate owned by foreign nationals leaving Tun is ia permanently; the transfer abroad of such funds is normally permitted up to D 4,000, and the remainder is directed to a Cap i tal Accoun t. Suspense Accounts may be debited without TUN IS IA these accounts and from these accounts to French Franc A rea External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these countries, with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with trans­ fers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of Tun is ia. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tun is ia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the F rench Franc A r e a ). The opening of a Cap i tal Account by a non­ resident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Cap i tal Accounts. Cap i tal Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets, with debt repayments and amortization of con­ tractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guar­ antee, and with any assets in excess of bank balances up to D 4,000 owned by foreign nationals leaving Tun is ia permanently. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in com­ panies, real estate, and business concerns; the settle­ ment of expenses arising in connection with the admin­ istration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the in i t ial account holder; taxes payable by the account holder; and the granting of credits to residents. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the F rench F ranc A r ea may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by residents of the F rench F ranc A r ea may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a l im it of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others, (e.g., debits resulting from the purchase of business concerns or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange and a ll credits not relating to real estate transactions) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Cap i tal Accounts of countries in the area of convertibil­ ity, between those of countries in the French F ranc A rea, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first-mentioned group to those in other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tun is ia and may be imported free of license against the presenta­ tion of an importer's card, up to D 500 a year for each importer. (4) Some 100 listed commodities, mainly spare parts, may be imported freely and without license by specified industrialists for their own use, against the completion of an "import certificate." Bilateral quotas are fixed annually for certain imports from France not covered by any of the four arrange­ ments outlined above. Imports under these quotas require licenses. The quotas cover such goods as perfumery and cosmetics, toilet soap, clothing, air conditioners, washing and drying machines, and motor cars. In addition, special procedures apply to certain other imports from France that are affected by Tunisia's Association Agreement with the E E C; such commodities also require a license when imported from France (see be low ). A ll other imports from France, and a ll imports from other countries in the French F ranc A r ea unless covered by one of the four procedures outlined above, require only a payments authorization from the Central Bank wh ich, in principle, is issued freely but in practice is not issued without the prior endorsement of the Trade Con t rol D iv i s ion. A ll imports not covered by one of the four arrrange- ments described above, when originating in countries outside the French F ranc A r ea with which Tun is ia does not maintain bilateral payments agreements, are regulated as follows (subject to further special arrange­ ments that apply to imports from E EC coun tr ies): import licenses for goods included in a liberalized list are in principle issued freely, while a ll other goods are licensed within quotas under bilateral trade agreements, or on a more discretionary basis when originating in countries with wh ich no agreement is in force .4 In addition to the above arrangements, there are cer­ tain special procedures for imports of specified goods originating in member countries of the E E C. Imports from countries with which Tunisia main­ tains bilateral payments agreements are licensed within bilaterally agreed quota limits unless the goods are among the few for which global quotas have been set. Cer ta in commodities are imported under state trad­ ing. These include goods subject to government monop­ olies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports from the Un i ted States under U. S. P . L. 480. In addi­ tion, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fruits, e tc .). Moreover, certain other commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associa- 4 Countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force include most European OECD countries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements have been concluded (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). TUN IS IA tions and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. A ll import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu­ mented. These include various payments related to inter­ national trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, com­ missions, brokerage, and charges and profits related to transit operations) and payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising from contractual obligations to nonresidents. App roval is also given for remittances of profits and dividends due to nonresidents. Industrial and export companies are permitted to distribute dividends to their shareholders freely, and commercial companies up to 10 per cent of their paid-up capital and reserves, pro­ vided that over 50 per cent of the share capital of such companies is owned by residents. These companies require only the approval of the Central Bank for the remittance of dividends; such approval is given promptly. A ll companies not meeting the above criteria require first the prior approval of the Central Bank for the dis­ tribution of dividends. Once such approval is obtained, the authorization to remit the profits abroad is also given promptly. In addition, exporters holding balances on E F AC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for customs duties and other expenses related to shipment of exports to France. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use E F AC balances freely for pub­ l ic i ty expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allo­ cation equivalent to D 50 a person (D 25 for children under ten). The allocation may be taken up in the form of foreign banknotes, the export of which is sub­ ject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange is also sold for l iv ing expenses of Tunisians studying abroad, up to the equivalent of D 50 a month for study in France, and up to D 57 a month for other countries (for study in the Un i ted States, amounts in 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U N I S IA excess of the latter allocation are authorized on a case- by-case basis). These amounts are additional to the cost of tuition fees. Exporters and hotel owners holding E F AC accounts may use such balances up to the equiv­ alent of D 1,000 a year for business travel abroad; the use of excess amounts by exporters may be approved by the Central Bank in certain circumstances, depend­ ing on the magnitude of their exports. Foreign nationals employed in Tunisia by private or semipublic com­ panies may transfer up to 50 per cent of their monthly wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their family lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their family with them. Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. The reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to D 20 upon departure at the airport; for reconversions in excess of this amount the prior approval of the Central Bank is required. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc A r ea and liberalized exports not exceed­ ing D 50 to other countries do not require a license. A ll other exports require export licenses. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V in and the export of cereals is the monopoly of the Office des Cereales. The export of olive o il is the monopoly of the Office Na t ional de l 'Hu i l e. For a ll exports, exporters must give an undertaking to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date payment is due and in any event within 100 days from the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special E F AC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. F or exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. Exporters' balances on E F AC accounts are not subject to limitation. F or hotel owners, credits are limited to 2 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds, and cannot exceed D 1,000 a year. Balances in E F AC accounts may be used fully for specified payments abroad. The accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. However, Tunisian nationals who are working abroad may retain the coun terva i ls of their foreign currency earnings in convertible dinar accounts. Foreign bank­ notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely but must be declared upon entry. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital A ll nonresidents, including residents of other coun­ tries of the French Franc A r e a, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tun is ia may obtain certain benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law N o. 69-35) of June 26, 1969. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. A ll foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia may upon leaving Tun is ia permanently have their domestic bank balances credited to Suspense Accounts; the same applies to all proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments not covered by a transfer guarantee (e.g., personal real estate). The con­ version into foreign exchange of the amounts deposited is then authorized freely up to D 4,000. A ll capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, forbidden; in some instances, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Gold F ive gold coins issued for commemorative purposes are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tunisia for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of Law N o. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold in any form other than jewelry and over the sale of unworked gold to domestic indus­ trial users, jewelers, handicraft workers, and dentists. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes during 1971 Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc A r e a, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc A r e a. January 26. Two import quota lists for the calendar year 1971 were published, one for imports originating in any E EC country (including F r an c e ), and the other for imports originating in France. March 9. Notice to Importers N o. 112 provided for 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUN IS IA a system of "annual import authorizations" under which annual import requirements of industrialists would be licensed at the beginning of each calendar year with one global license va l id for a ll sources. March 9. No t ice to Importers N o. 113 provided that specified industrialists could import some 100 listed commodities (mainly spare parts) for their own use freely and without license, subject to completion of an "import certificate" va l id for a ll sources. March 9. No t ice to Importers N o. 114 improved the E F AC facilities for exporters. The amount that could be retained in E F AC accounts was increased from 1 per cent to 4 per cent of export proceeds if they were repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and from 2 per cent to 6 per cent if repatriation occurred at an earlier date. The previous l im it of D 1,000 a year on credits to these accounts was removed. A l s o, the use of E F AC balances for business travel abroad by exporters in excess of the equivalent of D 1,000 a year could be approved by the Central Bank in certain circumstances. Certain addi­ tional types of trade-related payments from E F AC accounts were permitted. June 1. G lob al import quotas for 1971 were pub­ lished for imports from a ll sources. August 27. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar was maintained at D 1 = US$1.90476. August 27. The Central Bank began to quote the French financial franc daily. December 21. The par value in terms of gold was maintained. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar was changed from D 1 = US$1.90476 to D 1 = US$2 .06803. Subsequently, Tun is ia availed itself of wider margins. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency T U R K EY The par value is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Tu rk ish L i r a. The central rate is LT 14 = U S $ 1. The official rates for the U. S. dollar, the intervention cur­ rency, are LT 14.000 buying, and LT 14.301 selling, per US $ 1. The Central Bank also establishes from time to time official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies. A separate exchange rate of LT 13 per US$1 is applied to the purchase of exchange arising from the export of certain agricultural products, v iz ., cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, raisins, dried figs, oilseed cakes, olive o i l, and molasses. Pending the enactment of new legislation to eliminate interest payments on remittances by Tu rk ish workers resident abroad and the tax on exchange provided for travel abroad, Turkey maintains separate nominal rates for these two categories of transactions, though in each case the resulting effective exchange rate conforms to the central rate of LT 14 per US $ 1. Workers' remit­ tances are converted at a buying rate of LT 10.50 per US$ 1; when the Tu rk i sh l i ra equivalent is credited to an account with a bank in Turkey, the account is immedi­ ately credited with an additional 33% per cent of the amount converted. The official selling rate for exchange provided for expenses connected with foreign travel is LT 9.534 per U S $ 1; a tax of 50 per cent (m in imum of LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transporta­ tion. Banks charge their customers LT 10.10 per US$1 for exchange in the form of travelers checks or LT 10.25 per US$1 for cash. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Economic Relations ( M O F E R ) ,1 which is also in charge of the preparation of import programs. M O F E R, or the Central Bank on the advice of M O F E R, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require prior approval of the competent ministry, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of M O F E R. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations (Exporters U n i o n, the Chambers of Commerce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of M O F E R; export licenses are issued by M O F E R, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made in accordance w i th the terms of the relevant agreement. Certain com­ mercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and P a k i­ stan) are made through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited; imports of o ld, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forbidden, except w i th the authorization of M O F E R. A ll commercial imports require import licenses, wh ich are va l id for five months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the cus­ toms within four months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchants), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" issued by M O F ER before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial pur­ poses. The importer's tax status is taken into considera­ tion when granting such certificates. However, exporters, mine operators, shipowners, building contractors who have undertaken the construction of state establish­ ments, tourist establishments, and registered manufac­ turers are not required to secure an "importer's cer­ tificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters U n i o n, or the M in i s t ry of Tou r ism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro­ visions of import programs, which are planned for one year. The import programs, which include commodities financed with funds from the U. S. Agency for Inter­ national Development ( A I D ), classify imports in two categories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, con­ sisting of two parts (lists I and I I ), for wh ich import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a list of goods sub­ ject to global quotas published annually. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are pro­ hibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by M O F E R. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those w i th wh ich Turkey has bilateral payments 1 In December 1971, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations was replaced by the Ministry of Commerce. The consequent reorganization of control did not become fully effective until early in 1972. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Egypt, Hun­ gary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. 4 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreements;3 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. F or some goods on the liberalized and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations from U. S. A ID funds for orders exceeding $10,000 in value; there are no goods on these lists, however, that may be imported only with U. S. A ID funds and only from the Un i ted States. Certain imports from member countries of the E EC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the E EC and are free of quantitative restriction; about four fifths of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II, while the remainder is included in the quota list. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to author­ ized banks, wh ich transfer them to M O F ER for exami­ nation and prepare the import licenses and forward these to the Central Bank for approval on M O F ER instructions. F or certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. There are special arrangements administered by M O F ER to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplemen­ tary materials required for export production. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis­ tered importers and for industrialists. Imports on the quota list can be subdivided into two broad categories — imports which do not, and imports which do, require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for quota imports within the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the Central Bank for imports not requiring a permit, and by M O F ER (on the advice of the responsible authority) for those requiring a permit. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manufactured by local industry and do not exist in the local market in sufficient quantity and quality; the required certificate is the responsibility of the M in i s t ry of Industry and Commerce which may delegate authority to the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Allocations against quotas in the first category are dis­ tributed by semester; applications must be submitted through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to M O F ER during the first month of each semester. No single importer may apply for more than 40 per cent of half of the quota set for any particular commodity; exceptions are possible when this amount does not cover the price of one unit. Upon examination of applications, M O F ER instructs the Central Bank to issue a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for two months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank 3 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quota lists from nonagreement, non-OECD countries, MOFER takes the balance of trade and payments with these countries into account. In addition to the bilateral payments agreements listed in footnote 2, Turkey has bilateral trade agreements with Algeria, Ethiopia, Finland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Libyan Arab Republic, Pakistan, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia. T U R K EY within the period of validity of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body each semester. U p on examination of the application, M O F ER instructs the responsible body to issue a foreign exchange allocation ("certificate of need") va l id for two months but not longer than one month beyond the period of effectiveness of the quota list. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank during the period of validity of the cer­ tificate of need. Imports are to be made at the best ruling wor ld market prices. F or this purpose a certificate must be obtained from the Office of Price Registration and C o n­ trol after issuance of the import license or the certificate of need. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed from U. S. A ID funds, payments may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local cur­ rency, at the time of application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. F or payments against documents or against goods for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to prepay half of the value of the imports with the application for an import license. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange transfer within four months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and w i th in one month from the date of customs clearance for payment against goods. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub­ ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalization or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilat­ eral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to M O F ER on a monthly basis. Guarantee deposits for imports, whether financed from U. S. A ID funds or not, are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 50 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable,4 and for items on list II, 40 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 25 per cent of the value of the import application is payable for goods on importers' quotas, and 10 per cent for industrialists' quotas and export 4 For fertilizers, ammonia, and breeding animals, the ratio is 1 per cent. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY manufacturers.5 F or imports under bilateral quotas, the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonagree- ment country. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespec­ tive of the method of payment. The public sector (except for A ID imports of some enterprises and insti­ tutions in that sector) is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible cur­ rency countries on ly ), or 10 per cent (on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). F or imports to be financed from U. S. A ID funds, a guarantee pay­ ment of 10 per cent, but not to exceed LT 100,000, is payable for imports of the public sector other than cen­ tral government agencies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corre­ sponding to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that M O F ER is authorized to con­ clude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen­ tral Bank, or the M in is t ry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery with a limit of LT 1,750, in addi­ tion to personal effects. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of pro­ fessional instruments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and conditions vary with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or family use. Fore ign contractors may temporarily import, machin­ ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request­ ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign 5 A deposit of 50 per cent applies to items on list I and to items not on any list and not requiring a permit of MOFER imported under the Transitional Agreement with the E EC; items included in list 11 and those requiring permission from MOFER when imported under that Agreement require a deposit of 40 per cent. 428 companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. A ll such imports require the permission of the exchange control authori­ ties. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Import of an automobile 6 without payment of for­ eign exchange may be permitted by the Cen tral Bank or the M in i s t ry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turk ish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Tu rk i sh residents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Tu rk ish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that pro­ ceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Fo r­ eign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Tu rk ish nationals any automobiles imported duty-free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resi­ dent in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the M in i s t ry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit orga­ nizations. W i th these exceptions, automobiles and any other commodities that have been imported duty-free may not be sold to residents. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are sub­ ject to the following charges: (1) a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 per cent of the declared v a l u e ;7 (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, and cus­ toms clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging generally from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu­ ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, pur­ chases of books, payments for registration fees, adver- 6 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 7 The stamp duty is 9 per cent or 9.5 per cent on goods imported under the Provisional Agreement between Turkey and the E EC, depend­ ing on the type of commodity. The stamp duty is 100 per cent for imports made by special permission but not coniorrnmg to the provi­ sions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adm in is tra­ tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial trans­ actions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law to Encourage Fo r­ eign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long- term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be granted transferability between for­ eign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Tu rk i sh citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals resid­ ing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted to one trip a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allow­ ance of exchange for tourist travel is up to the equiva­ lent of US$400 a calendar year; travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying at least the equivalent of US$200 in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age, the pur­ chase of this amount not being mandatory). Tu rk ish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$400 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted w i th in the limits of annual quotas, which vary accord­ ing to the taxable income of the applicant firm. F or exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, and so forth, and personal busi­ ness) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the neces­ sary foreign exchange. A tax of 50 per cent (minimum of LT 500) is paya­ ble on a ll exchange purchased for travel abroad,8 on the purchase against payment in Tu rk ish l i ra of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. The LT 500 m in imum is not applicable to Tu rk ish citizens leaving to work abroad. In combination with the official rate for travel expenditures of LT 9.534 per U S $ 1, the effective exchange rate allowing for the tax is the selling rate of LT 14.301 per US $ 1. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Tu rk ish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out w i th­ out any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Tu rk ish liras into foreign cur­ rency when leaving the country are required to present 8 Exempted from the tax on foreign travel expenditure are expenses of persons traveling abroad for medical treatment, monthly allocations of students and officials, and payments to personnel of ships and air­ craft. The special exchange rate for expenses in connection with for­ eign travel, however, does not apply to these expenditures. T U R K EY a document showing that foreign exchange had pre­ viously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. A ll exports destined to countries outside the O E C D ,9 exports of a few commodities to any destination,10 re-exports irre­ spective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. C om­ mercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by M O F ER on the basis of prices obtaining in domestic and foreign markets. F or this purpose, exporters must apply for price registration to a professional organization designated by M O F ER within five working days (three working days in the case of hazelnuts) of a sa le ,11 together w i th a statement of income earned and income and corporation taxes paid during the last three years. The professional orga­ nization w i ll not accept for registration applications not conforming to the checklist of prices. When registering sales, due consideration is given to delivery time, quan­ tity, sales conditions, the income earned by the exporter on his commercial activities in the course of the last three years, and income and corporation taxes assessed during the same period. F or exports requiring a license, the price registration application is submitted by the responsible authority to M O F E R; approved price regis­ tration bills constitute export licenses. In issuing licenses for exports to bilateral agreement countries, export quotas are fixed by M O F E R. Exports must be started within 30 to 180 days of registration, depending on the type of goods, sales contracts, and country of designa­ tion. C ircu la t ion certificates for exports to member countries of the European Economic Community bene­ fiting from preferential customs and tax treatment are issued by the Customs Au thor i ty. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported w i th in three months from the date of export or w i th in ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and ind i­ rect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or products are exported. There are basically four rates of refund: 5, 15, 25, and 30 per cent of specified direct and indirect taxes. However, 10 percentage points more in tax refunds is granted to exporters who sell more than $1 m i l l ion of goods benefiting from a refund ($1.2 m i l­ l ion from January 1, 1972). Reduced rates of refund apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral pay- 9 Exports of specified perishables to these countries are authorized by the customs offices; export licenses must be delivered to customs within five days of export. 10 Cereals, certain minerals, such as molybdenum, wolfram and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, and fertilizers. 11 The customs authorities authorize exports of certain perishables; price registration certificates must be submitted to the customs authori­ ties within five days of shipment. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T U R K EY merits agreement countries, and other goods exported to these countries do not qualify for a tax refund. In addi­ tion, varying provisional rates of refund not exceeding 10 per cent were introduced pending final classification of some commodities. The tax refund must not exceed the amount of indirect taxes and charges actually paid. Proceeds from Invisibles F i rms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to sur­ render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi­ dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Tu rk ish workers abroad are sold to the Central Bank at LT 10.50 per U. S. dollar; when the Tu rk ish l i ra equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33% per cent is immediately credited to the account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum, resulting in an effective exchange rate of LT 14.00 per U. S. dollar. The amounts deposited plus the interest can be withdrawn at any t im e .12 Fo r­ eign travelers wishing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this l im i t. The import of Tu rk ish banknotes and coins by trav­ elers (whether of Tu rk ish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Cap i tal transfers abroad by residents and capital trans­ actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. W i th the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Tu rk ish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is sub­ ject to quotas set by the M in is t ry of Finance in accord­ ance with their equity capital in Tu rkey. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert 12 Foreign nationals in Turkey and Turkish workers abroad may open convertible lira accounts at Turkish banks. 4 30 into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; a ll earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to ind iv idual permission, blocked assets and balance may be utilized w i th in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for l iv ing expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. No rma l ly, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the L aw to Encourage Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commerc ial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to con­ tribute to the economic development of the country, or w i ll operate in a field of activity open to Tu rk i sh p r i­ vate enterprise and w i ll not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, a ll or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. U p on application, the M in is t ry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The trans­ fer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution his name is notified to the M in is t ry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, how­ ever, they must be presented to the M in is t ry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by non­ residents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same trans­ fer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petro­ leum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre­ sented for minting by the State M i n t. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus­ tr ial users. Changes during 1971 January 4. The 1971 import program was published, introducing a new import system. Imports under the program were expected to amount to $1,045 m i l l ion during the year. Imports were classified into liberalized goods, for which licenses were to be issued freely, l ib­ eralized imports requiring authorization, and an annual list of imports subject to global quotas. Guarantee deposits were reduced to 50 per cent of the value of imports for goods on liberalized list I and to 40 per cent for imports on liberalized list II. Ea r ly in the year, the existing backlog of exchange applications for imports was eliminated. February 5. A communique was issued amending the regulations concerning imports without foreign exchange allocation. March 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired. April 29. A decree was published revising the trade system. Au thor i ty to regulate imports and exports was vested in the newly established M in is t ry of Foreign Economic Relations ( M O F E R ). Imports and exports were made subject to prior price control by M O F E R. In the examination of applications for export price approval and in the allocation of foreign exchange for imports, M O F ER would consider, among other factors, the income earned and income or corporation tax paid by exporters and importers during the preceding three T U R K EY years. The issuance of permits for authorized imports, formerly vested in various ministries according to com­ modity, was made the responsibility of M O F E R. May 5. Regulations were issued specifying details of export and import procedures. May 13. Applications for foreign exchange allocations against specified import quotas were required to be accompanied by a certificate confirming that the com­ modities concerned were not manufactured in sufficient quantity and quality by local industry. July 9. The special exchange rate applying to the proceeds of specified agricultural exports was depreci­ ated from LT 12 to LT 13 per U S $ 1. August 23. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained at LT 14.85 and LT 15.00 per US $ 1. September 1. The commercial provisions of the interim agreement with the European Econom ic C om­ munity regarding the transitional period of Turkey's association with the E EC entered into effect. Customs duties on imports into Turkey from E EC countries were reduced by 5 per cent and 10 per cent, depending on the commodity; an equivalent reduction applied to the stamp duty. Turkey freed from quantitative restriction commodities included in a list of liberalized imports consolidated to the E E C, covering 35 per cent of Turkey's private imports from member countries of the Community during 1967; the proportion of liberalized goods would be raised at specified intervals during the transitional period. Turkey would refrain from intro­ ducing new quantitative restrictions on imports from E EC countries; however, should Turkey find it neces­ sary to restrain imports of items included in the liberal­ ized lists, it would open quotas for imports of these items from E EC countries equal to at least 75 per cent of average imports of such commodities from the C om­ munity during the preceding three years. Du r ing the period of transition to a customs union with the E E C, Turkey was to reduce progressively import duties or taxes with an equivalent effect on imports from member countries of the Community. F or this purpose, imports were classified into two categories. Du r ing the transi­ tional period, Turkey's external tariff would be aligned to that of the E E C. October 15. The selling rate for the U. S. dollar was changed from LT 15.00 to LT 15.375 per US $ 1. The buying rate remained unchanged at LT 14.85 per US $ 1. November 14. The maximum exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of US$200 to US$400 a person a calendar year. December 22. A central rate of LT 14 = US$1 came into effect, and Turkey would avail itself of wider mar­ gins. The separate rate applying to proceeds of specified agricultural exports was maintained at LT 13 = US $ 1. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Uganda Sh i l l ing. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, is U Sh 7.14286 = US $ 1. Uganda has availed itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign cu r renc ie s1 other than sterling, U. S. dollars, and deutsche mark; its rate for the U. S. dollar is fixed and its rates for sterling and deutsche mark are based on the previous day's London rates against the U. S. dollar. Commerc ial banks in Uganda deal in a ll speci­ fied currencies 2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U. S. dollar in London, except for K enya and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. East A f r i c an shillings (which have ceased to be legal tender) may be exchanged at par at the Bank of Uganda and the commercial banks. The latter may freely deal forward with customers in ster­ l ing, U. S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying import or export contract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance. Au thor i ty for approving many payments in respect of current invisibles and some capital payments is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade A ct and by the Export and Import Corporation under the Export and Import Corporation A c t. The Minister of Commerce and Industry has powers to pro­ hibit imports and exports. The Na t ional Trad ing Co r­ poration has the sole right to the wholesale distribution of specified commodities. Together with K enya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East A f r i c an currency area but exchange control is temporarily being applied to both Kenya and Tan­ zania. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling A r ea and main­ tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the Un i ted K ingdom; a ll payments to K enya and Tanzania, however, must be effected in East A f r i­ can currency,3 either through an East A f r i c an Account 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 8 East African currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, and Tanzania shillings. 4 32 in Uganda or in Kenya or Tanzania shillings. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling A r ea other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South A f r i ca may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling A r ea Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling A r ea currency; receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling A r ea Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Au thor ized pay­ ments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made to an External Account in any Sterling A r ea country, in Uganda shil­ lings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling A r ea currency except Rho­ desian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling A rea other than Rhodesia may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Accoun t, in any Sterling A r ea specified currency from an External Accoun t, or in any other specified currency that is not a Sterling A r ea currency. Payments to Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, and South-West A f r i ca (Nam ib ia) are pro­ hibited. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling A r ea countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely with all authorized pay­ ments to such Sterling A r ea countries by Uganda resi­ dents, with transfers from other Sterling A r ea Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling A r ea except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling A r ea and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea to Ugandan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling A r ea for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling A r ea Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling A r ea currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permis­ sion of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling A rea country has been obtained, Sterling A rea Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Ster­ l ing A rea, and for purchases in Uganda of any non- Sterling A rea currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such coun­ tries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any non-Sterling A rea currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea to authorized dealers; provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Ster­ ling A r ea country has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling A r ea Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling A rea currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable begin­ ning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transac­ tions. Transfers between B locked Accounts in Uganda, and to B locked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments A ll permitted imports require licenses. Some imports from a ll sources are prohibited for reasons of public po l icy; imports prohibited for other reasons include cotton fabrics, electrical home refrigerators, transistor radios, and matches. A ll imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in A f r i ca are not being licensed. A ll goods originating in mainland Ch ina must be imported through the intermediary of the Na t ional Trad ing Corpora t ion. A number of other commodities may only be imported by or to the order of the Export and Import Corporation, or with the Corporation's writ­ ten authorization. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of or ig in. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tanzania are sub­ ject to transfer taxes. When the importer has obtained authorization to import from the Export and Import Corporation, the Bank of Uganda w i ll allocate foreign exchange upon payment of the specified advance deposit. The deposit amounts to 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value for essentials, 100 per cent for specified luxury goods, and 50 per cent for a ll other goods. The deposits must be held for a m in imum of three months for imports from Kenya and Tanzania and for at least six months for other imports. The Export and Import Corporation w i ll issue the import license after the importer has received an exchange allocation and has made the required deposit. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the Exchange Con t rol within six months. Payments for non­ essential imports are made after arrival of the goods, but advance payment is permitted for essential goods. U G A N DA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and those to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved adminis­ tratively. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 2,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Kenya and Tanzania, for which holiday facilities of up to U Sh 500 a person a year are available, and Rhodesia and South A f r i c a, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried noncitizens recruited from outside East A f r i ca may obtain allocations for travel outside East A f r i ca at the time of their overseas leave. No foreign exchange is released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33V3 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con­ tract. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by trav­ elers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may export U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. A ll exports to South A f r i c a, the Portuguese territories in A f r i c a, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot­ note 2) must be collected within six months of expor­ tation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee is subject to export duty, and an export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of <£ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers from Kenya and Tan­ zania may bring in U Sh 100 each. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes and foreign cur­ rency travelers checks. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U G A N DA Capital Cap i tal transfers to a ll countries are restricted and those to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemp­ tions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling A r ea assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. (The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance pre­ miums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings.) A further transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. A ll remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or held on deposit with a bank in Uganda; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is transferable also during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to secure guaranteed repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro­ tection) A c t, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in speci­ fied types of production require approval under the East A f r i c an Industrial Licensing A ct and the Uganda Licensing A c t, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and dis­ tributed by companies operating in Uganda are trans­ ferable. A ll imports and exports of securities require approval. App roval is freely granted for the purchase by non­ residents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally per­ mitted. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to any country more than U Sh 100 a year without specific exchange control approval. W i th minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resi­ dent in Uganda which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident out­ side Uganda require prior exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. W i th this excep­ tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form 434 other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Expo rt licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the fo l­ lowing from a ll sources other than Kenya and Tan­ zania, and from Kenya and Tanzania when originating in other countries, is subject to ind iv idual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or s i l­ versmiths' wares, including set gems; bu l l ion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1971 April 26. The 1970 prohibition on the import and export of domestic currency notes by travelers was lifted for travelers within East A f r i c a, who were hence­ forth allowed to import or export up to U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. May 13. The allocation for holiday travel to Kenya or Tanzania was reduced from U Sh 1,000 a person a trip to U Sh 1,000 a person a year. June 6. The nationalization measures introduced under the Companies (Government and Pub l ic Bodies Participation) A c t, 1970 on A p r il 30, 1970 were amended. Under the new decree the Government would acquire up to 49 per cent of each class of shares issued or to be issued in 11 specified companies and the already acquired shareholdings in 7 companies might be reduced to 49 per cent upon application. August 23. The fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the pound sterling was maintained. Rates for the U. S. dollar and other foreign currencies were based on the current market rates in London. As a result, the Uganda shilling began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. do l lar. October 4. Exchange transactions with Tanzania were suspended. October 11. The Uganda shilling was repegged from the pound sterling to the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relationship for which remained U Sh 7.14286 — US $ 1. Other currencies would be quoted on the basis of cross rates in the London market. October 11. Exchange transactions w i th Tanzania were resumed. October 28. Import payments henceforth could be made only after proof was submitted that the goods had been received in Uganda. This regulation did not apply to imports of machinery for use in the manufacture of goods in Uganda, essential medical or veterinary drugs, raw materials for manufacturing or processing indus­ tries, and other essential imports for which special per­ mission had been granted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U G A N DA November 22. Advance deposit requirements were introduced for imports. F or imports from Kenya and Tanzania deposits must be held for a m in imum of three months and for imports from other countries for at least six months. The rates of deposit were 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value for specified essentials, 100 per cent for specified luxury goods, and 50 per cent for a ll other goods. In addition, from December 1, 1971 the Bank of Uganda would allocate foreign exchange for imports up to a total of U Sh 100 m i l l ion a month only. App l ica t ions for import authorizations must be sub­ mitted to the Export and Import Corpora t ion. After receipt of the import authorization, the Bank of Uganda would allocate foreign exchange within the monthly ceiling. The Export and Import Corporation would issue import licenses after the importer had received a foreign exchange allocation and had made the required advance deposit. November 24. The basic allowances for holiday travel were reduced from U Sh 4,000 to U Sh 2,000 every three years for travel overseas and from U Sh 1,000 to U Sh 500 a year for travel w i th in the East A f r i c an Commun i ty. Permitted remittances of cash gifts were reduced from U Sh 200 a person a year to U Sh 100 a family a year. No foreign exchange would be released for nursery, primary, and secondary education except for children of diplomats, technical assistance person­ nel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases. December 15. The Bank of Uganda suspended the granting of forward exchange cover. 22. The par value was changed from 0.124414 gram to 0.114592 gram of fine gold per Uganda shilling. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar remained US$1 - U Sh 7.14286 or U Sh 1 = US$0.140000. Uganda availed itself of wider margins. December 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UN ITED K INGDOM* Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling. Exchange rates are maintained w i th in wider margins of 2% per cent of a middle rate for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency, of US$2.6057 per £. 1. The Bank of England's official rates for spot telegraphic transfers in U. S. dollars are US$2.6643 buying, and US$2.5471 selling, per £ 1. Market rates for spot transactions in other convertible or externally convertible currencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling) are free to move within a range of rates resulting from the official dollar limits of the United K ingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Au thor ized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies, except Rho­ desian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Fo rwa rd rates may fluctuate under the influ­ ence of market forces; transactions with resident cus­ tomers may be entered into only for approved pur­ poses, where there is an underlying commercial contract and in the currency of the contract.1 There is also a market in which the foreign currency proceeds 2 (referred to as investment currency) resulting mainly from the sale outside the Sterling A r ea of for­ eign currency securities,3 direct investments, and per­ sonal property owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate; at the end of 1971, that premium was about 2 9^ per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable foreign cur­ rency securities and for approved direct investments and personal property acquisitions in countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. The United K ingdom formally accepted the obliga­ tions of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling A r ea ("Scheduled T e r r i­ tories" in the nomenclature of the U. K. exchange control) .4 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong K o ng are screened under Hong K o ng regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling A r ea do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of sterling assets of residents of H o ng K o n g. Con t rol is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling A r e a. W i th respect to outward capital transfers, a program of voluntary restraint applies to direct and portfolio invest­ ment in the more developed countries of the Sterling A r ea (Australia, the Irish Repub l ic ,5 New Zealand, and South A f r i c a, see section on Cap i ta l, below).6 Administration of Control Exchange control in the Un i ted K ingdom is adminis­ tered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U. K. Treasury, as is the voluntary restraint program on certain outward investment. However, practically a ll commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requiring exchange control permis­ sion. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling A r ea may be in any Sterling A r ea currency; those from countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia must be in sterling from an Ex ternal Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), wh ich must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permis­ sion has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to countries in the Sterling A r ea may be made in any Sterling A r ea currency; pay­ ments to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an Exter­ nal Account or in any foreign currency except Rhode­ sian currency. F or security reasons, settlements w i th Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally * With effect from May 1, 1972, the Bank of England narrowed the exchange rate margins for the currencies of member countries of the EEC and Denmark; similar action was taken as regards Norway with effect from May 23, 1972. 1 With effect from March 16, 1972, U. K. exporters tendering for overseas contracts were invited to apply for forward exchange cover in respect of a tender or of foreign components included in a tender price. 2 Under the U. K. exchange control regulations, foreign currency comprises all non-Sterling Area currencies. 3 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities expressed in a currency of a country outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are applica­ ble to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. A ll other securities are regarded as sterling securities. The term "securi­ ties" includes certificates of deposit and treasury bills. 4 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, State of Bahrain, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyprus, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Irish Republic, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwait, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, State of Qatar, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, South-West Africa (Namibia), Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protec­ torates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously men­ tioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. The Maldive Islands, Nauru and Oman are administratively treated as being within the Sterling Area. Bangladesh was listed as a separate Sterling Area territory with effect from February 11, 1972. * The U. K. regulations refer to Ireland as the Irish Republic, and for the purpose of this survey the U. K. usage is being followed. 6 The program was abolished with effect from March 22, 1972. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. H ow­ ever, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, a ll commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the Un i ted K ingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t; authorized payments for exports from the United K ingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are l iv ing temporarily in the Un i ted K ingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United K ingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for l iv ing expenses within the United K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea (except Hong Kong) are treated in the same way as those of residents of the Un i ted K ingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling A rea no U. K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any terri­ tory of the Sterling * A r e a, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory con­ cerned. External Accounts. W i th the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see below), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with banks in the Un i ted K ingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling A r e a, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling A r e a, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or foreign cur­ rency other than Rhodesian currency (including bank­ notes), and with sterling banknotes mailed from out­ side the Sterling A r e a. External Accounts may be debited, subject to general or special permission, for payments to residents of the Sterling A r e a, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the Un i ted K ingdom, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts, provided that the U N I T ED K I N G D OM bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968; payments by residents of Sterling A r ea territories other than the Un i ted K ingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U. K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the discount or maturity proceeds of U. K. treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered customs in the United K ingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling A rea territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annuities where asso­ ciated with the deceased husband's employment, and (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or M a l aw i. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for l iv ing expenses in the Un i ted K ingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their families; authorized purchases of U. K. sterling securi­ ties to be held for the account holder; purchases in the Un i ted K ingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Sterling A rea for (1) interest on and repayment of outstanding personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U. K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United K i n g­ dom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and incidental expenses, (d) insur­ ance premiums and capital and annuity payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £ 2 50 for any one payment, to individuals and religious, medical, educational, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds provided the person was a member of the fund before November 11, 1965 or before taking up residence after that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not normally allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rho­ desian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Accoun t, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U. K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U. K. resident by whom they are held. Permis- 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM sion is normally given for residents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase U. K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted K ingdom and to purchase U. K. Treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived from the sale proceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. Th is is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling A r e a, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the Un i ted K ingdom and most other parts of the Sterling A r e a, are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not nor­ mally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Sterling A r ea and of services provided by residents of the Sterling A r ea for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments F or import licensing purposes, countries outside the United K ingdom other than Rhodesia 7 are divided into five groups: other Sterling A rea countries, the Do l lar A r e a ,8 Japan ,9 the Eastern A r e a ,10 and a ll other coun­ tries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General License without restriction, with the following exceptions: (a) from a ll other countries, 12 commodities or groups of commod­ ities; 11 (b) from all other countries except the Sterling A r e a, 3 commodities or groups of commodities; (c) from the Do l lar A r ea only, 5 commodities or groups of commod i t i e s ;12 (d) from Japan only, certain textiles and domestic pottery; and (e) from the Eastern A r ea only, 14 commodities or groups of commodities. Most 7 A ll goods from Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not normally granted. 8 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 9 Japan will ultimately cease to be treated as in a category by itself. 10 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovak:'a, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 11 Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Coffee Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals also cannot be imported under the Open General License from any source. The restrictions on cotton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. 12 With effect from January 20, 1972, quantitative restrictions on imports of certain dairy products originating in or consigned from the Dollar Area were removed. 438 articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Imports of whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight con­ tainers, are prohibited from a ll non-Sterling A r ea sources. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import from countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of license carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is sub­ mitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United K ingdom or are to be dispatched imme­ diately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in a ll cases where the payment is considered necessary or in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essen­ t ia l. Exchange control forms are not required for pay­ ments to residents of the Sterling A r e a; neither are they required for payments to residents of other coun­ tries, unless the payment represents part or final settle­ ment for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds <£ 2,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of <£250 is being bought forward. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling A r ea countries may be made freely. Payments to resi­ dents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea require exchange control authorization, which (except for pay­ ments to residents of Rhode s ia )13 is granted freely for a ll purposes other than sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resident outside the Sterling A r e a, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £ - 2 50 or its equiv­ alent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many cate­ gories of current invisibles without any l im i ta t ion, and for other categories up to established l im i t s .14 App l i c a- 13 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardship and to remittances of a continuing nature by charitable, religious, medical, and educational organizations for both current purposes (where similar remittances were made prior to November 11, 1956) or to meet capital expenditure in the educa­ tional and medical fields. Small personal gifts are also permitted where humanitarian grounds exist for the purpose. 14 On May 26, 1972 it was announced that applications for the trans­ fer of funds in excess of existing delegated authorities would be con­ sidered in respect of U. K. residents who are, or are to be, temporarily employed in the E EC, Denmark, or Norway. This measure was intro­ duced to remove obstacles to the free movement of labor between the countries concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions for payments in excess of these limits or for pur­ poses for wh ich no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of Eng land, pro­ vided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Au tho r ized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against payment in sterling from an Ex ternal Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. F or any type of travel outside the Sterling A r ea (except to Rhodes ia), U . K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equivalent of £ 3 00 a per­ son a trip; for travel for business or professional rea­ sons, an allowance of <£40 a day up to a maximum of £ 2 , 0 00 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. A p p l i c a­ tions for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of England unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom. T ravel exchange purchased in the Un i ted K ingdom must normally be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per­ sonal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to . £ 30 per check, if backed by check cards. Cred it cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resi­ dent travelers may take out up to £ 3 00 in foreign cur­ rency notes. A ny unused travel exchange must be sur­ rendered w i th in one month of issue or, if the traveler is s t i ll abroad, within one month of return to the United K ingdom. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months from the date of issue or for one month from the date of return to the Un i ted K ingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £ 25 in U. K. and other Sterling A rea banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £ 25 expressed in the currencies of the United K ingdom or the Irish Republic. Au thor ized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appro­ priate documentary evidence of the amounts due, applications to pay fees, accommodation charges, and a ll incidental expenses arising from the education of U. K. residents outside the Sterling A r e a. Special regulations apply to a ll travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England w i ll authorize the issue of foreign currency at a rate of up to £ 10 a day with a maximum of £ 2 5 0. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are strong compassionate grounds. U N I T ED K I N G D OM Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not normally issued. V i r tu a l ly a ll exports to other destinations are free of license. No exchange control forms are required. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia must normally obtain appropriate payment w i th in six months of shipment; special exchange control permis­ sion to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months w i th­ out having covered the terms of insurance w i th the Export Credit Guarantee Department ( E C G D ). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipient has obtained spe­ cific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Per­ mitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of inv is i­ bles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients of such currencies have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. Br i t ish and other bank­ notes may be brought into the Un i ted K ingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United K ingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesian currency from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign cur­ rency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct investments or personal property situated outside the Sterling Area) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or personal property or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same pur­ poses.15 If permission is not forthcoming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ru l ing in the official market to an authorized bank in the United K ingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equiv­ alent in non-Sterling A r ea currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must normally be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of 15 With effect from March 22, 1972 it was announced that the for­ eign currency proceeds of sale or liquidation of direct investments in the E EC, Denmark, and Norway, whenever made, would no longer normally be regarded as investment currency. This measure was a corollary to the relaxation of the direct investment rules described in footnote 19. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM e x c h a n g e .1 6 17 In certain circumstances, residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who are foreign nationals and who have obtained exemption from their liabilities under the Exchange Con t rol A ct in respect of assets denomi­ nated in the currency of the country of their nationality may obtain permission for exempted cash balances and the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be sold for sterling in the investment currency market up to 75 per cent of the amount concerned. W i th respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling A r ea (Australia, the Irish Republic, New Zealand, and South A f r i c a ) .18 F i rms and individuals wishing to proceed with direct investment are asked to consult the Bank of England regarding any investment over <£ 25,000. The Bank w i ll examine their plans to see whether they promise an early, substantial, and continuing benefit to the United Kingdom's balance of payments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct investments outside the Sterling A r ea (see below). Proposals are readily acceptable where this criterion is met. Otherwise, applicants are asked to finance the investment by appropriate borrowing abroad or by using normally retained profits, i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent past. The aim for portfolio investment is that over a period of time there should be no significant in­ crease above the level on M ay 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institutional investor of securities denomi­ nated in the currencies of the four Sterling A r ea countries mentioned. There are no restrictions on capi­ tal transfers by residents of the Un i ted K ingdom to the other Sterling A r ea countries, except Hong K o ng (see section on Exchange Con t rol Terr i tory, above). A ll capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling A r ea require approval. Each ind iv idual resident of the Un i ted K ingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts not exceeding a total of <£300, or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to nonresidents; additional amounts may be allowed under appropriate circumstances. The cash gifts allowance is noncumulative and is not trans­ ferable from one resident to another. F or security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means. F or direct investments outside the Sterling A rea, official exchange is normally made available on ly 16 Where currency is received from similar sources by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, permission may also be given for such funds to be regarded as investment currency; in this case, the 25 per cent requirement would normally apply, but for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965,. or any other foreign currency securities derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 17 The full amount of the currency proceeds is normally permitted to be sold as investment currency when a personal property has been held for private use; when it has been held as an investment, how­ ever, the "25 per cent requirement" is normally applied. 18 The program was abolished with effect from March 22, 1972. 4 40 for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U. K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit w i ll normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign cur­ rency receipts that would not take place without the investment. F or such projects ("super-criterion proj­ ects"), official exchange may be made available up to £ 2 5 0 , 0 00 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment cur­ rency, the export free of payment of capital equip­ ment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to non­ residents on appropriate terms, or by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebted­ ness to the U. K. parent company. D irect investment other than for super-criterion projects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fall directly upon the U. K. official foreign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the Un i ted K ingdom by way of benefits arising from the investments: such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, or by the capitali­ zation of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U. K. parent company. F or a ll approved projects, the permitted proportion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one th ird of net earnings after taxes, applied on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is i n v o l v e d .19 The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling A r ea must be financed either with invest­ ment currency or w i th foreign currency borrowing. Such borrowing is freely permitted when undertaken by or through U. K. professional security managers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this manner is exempt from the "25 per cent require­ ment," provided that the proceeds are reinvested in other foreign currency securities. Purchases of marketable foreign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories. Purchases from other residents may also be effected with sterling on a U. K. stock exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency pre­ m ium) . 19 With effect from March 22, 1972, official exchange up to £1 mil­ lion a project a year could be used to finance all new approved direct investments in member countries of the European Economic Com­ munity and in Denmark and Norway. It was officially estimated that 90 per cent of all new investment projects in the enlarged EEC and over 50 per cent by value were likely to be eligible for finance entirely at official rates of exchange. The rules governing investment in other countries outside the Sterling Area were unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The purchase by U. K. residents of a house or apart­ ment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling A r ea requires specific approval and must be made either from another Sterling A r ea resident for sterling or another Sterling A r ea currency or from a nonresi­ dent of the Sterling A r ea with investment currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. App rov al is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of investment currency are nor­ mally l im i ted to reasonable amounts. A ll proceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents other than resi­ dents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; so also are capital pay­ ments under life and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents w i th resident insurance companies. Residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who leave w i th the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Sterling A r ea and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure from the Un i ted K i n g­ dom, regarded for exchange control purposes as non­ residents, and w i th the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sterling A r ea nationals, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the Un i ted K ingdom return to take up resi­ dence in their country of nationality) may normally transfer a ll their sterling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Sterling A r ea except Rhodesia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £ 5 , 0 00 in foreign exchange for a family unit and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of £ 5 , 0 00 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a nonresident.20 Du r­ ing that period the funds may be disposed of for for­ eign currencies other than Rhodesian currency through the investment currency market, or may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on a U. K. stock exchange, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market. After the four- year period any remaining assets are transferable in accordance w i th the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the transfer at the official rate of exchange is normally allowed. The participation of foreign capital as a direct invest­ ment in the Un i ted K ingdom is subject to individual authorization, wh ich is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an 1 20 On May 26, 1972 it was announced that applications would be considered from U. K. residents taking up residence and employment in the E EC, Denmark, and Norway to transfer sterling assets at the official rate of exchange in excess of the £ 5 , 0 00 limit. This measure was introduced to remove obstacles to the free movement of labor between the countries concerned. U N I T ED K I N G D OM approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip­ tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be sur­ rendered at rates ru l ing in the official market unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases involving the take­ over of existing companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of Br i t ish industry are consid­ ered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the Un i ted K ingdom by nonresidents are, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and any subsequent finance being provided in foreign currency at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company .21 Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the Un i ted K ingdom, and U. K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent before borrowing in the Un i ted K ingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permis­ sion is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manu­ facturing capacity except for companies whose activ­ ities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U. K. economy .22 Borrowing by U. K. residents from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea to finance expenditure in the Un i ted K ingdom is subject to restriction. U. K. residents other than authorized banks normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea for conversion into sterling for use in the Un i ted K ingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a, eunless the term of the borrowing is at least five years; exporters, mer­ chants, and certain commodity traders are, however, permitted to borrow foreign currency for shorter periods from authorized banks to finance their sales. Au thor ized banks must not lend foreign currency to U. K. residents other than authorized banks for any other purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. U. K. residents other than authorized banks are not normally permitted to borrow sterling or other Sterling A r ea 21 On April 14, 1972 it was announced that unlimited sterling bor­ rowing in the United Kingdom would normally be allowed by U. K. companies in which any nonresidents have less than a controlling interest, except by companies which are purely vehicles for portfolio investment (see also footnote 22). 22 With effect from March 22, 1972, U. K. companies controlled by residents of the E EC, Denmark, or Norway that were not purely vehicles for portfolio investment normally were allowed to raise unlim­ ited sterling finance for their operations anywhere in the United King­ dom, provided that the controlling shareholders were not themselves controlled by, or acting as nominees for, residents of other countries outside the Sterling Area. U. K. companies controlled by residents of any country outside the Sterling Area normally were allowed similar facilities only in respect of new expenditure in the areas of the United Kingdom which qualified for special government assistance (the assisted areas). 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM currencies from non-Sterling A r ea residents for any purpose. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositories, transactions in securities of a ll types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the Un i ted K ingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted K ingdom. Residents are nor­ mally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling A r e a, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange pro­ ceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling A r e a. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U. K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment cur­ rency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement in respect of transactions on the "book." Investment currency held for a continuous period of 6 months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the 6-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the current mar­ ket rate in the official foreign exchange market. Invest­ ment currency may only be retained as investment cur­ rency for a maximum of 12 months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange ma rke t .23 U. K. investment trusts, unit trusts, certain other institutional investors, and pro­ fessional security managers on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U. K. jobbers and other security dealers may, w i th permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of for­ eign currency, whether from U. K. banks or from non­ residents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency secu­ rities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea are not prevented by the U. K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the Un i ted K ingdom; they 23 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final matu­ rity) or in six-month treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money market paper (including certificates of deposit) without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent require­ ment on resale of the paper. 4 42 may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted K ingdom, but they must obtain the per­ mission of the U. K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the Un i ted K ingdom. Permission is required for a ll transfers of securities in the Un i ted K ingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U. K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U. K. authorities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted K ingdom against payment in foreign currency or in sterling from an External Accoun t. Securities so purchased may be exported from the Un i ted K ingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom for settlement only in foreign currency; in no circumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonres i­ dents must obtain permission to buy securities in the Un i ted K ingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the Un i ted K ingdom for External Account sterling and freely transfer the pro­ ceeds abroad at official market rates. A ll transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresi­ dents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Sterling A r e a, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an Exter­ nal Accoun t. Au thor ized banks may freely accept foreign curren­ cies from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea for deposit; such deposits may be re-lent to other nonresidents or switched into sterling and made available to domestic borrowers. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's open position and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign cur­ rencies. Gold Residents of the Un i ted K ingdom may freely buy, ho ld, or sell domestic and foreign gold coins. W i th this exception, residents of the Un i ted K ingdom other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or gen­ erally permitted to do so; permission is granted restric- tively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for industrial and professional ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purposes (including the manufacture of gold medals, medallions, etc.). The M i nt from time to time strikes gold sovereigns. A l though legal tender, these do not circulate in the Un i ted K i n g d om. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal co in which is for the time being current in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom or wh ich, having been current there, has at any time after M ay 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The import by any resident of the Un i ted K ingdom of gold bu l l ion, gold coins, and gold medals, medal­ lions, tablets or other pieces in p ic tor ial relief or bear­ ing inscriptions is on Open General License, from all sources except Rhodesia, but the holding of, or dealing w i th, bu l l ion is subject to restrictions, as stated above. The export of gold bu l l ion and a ll gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Au tho r i ty has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bu l l ion and co in purchased by any non-Sterling A r ea resident in the London gold market against payment in Ex ternal Account sterling or foreign currency. A license is required from the Department of Trade and Industry for the export of gold jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufactured form over 100 years o ld and valued at £ 2 , 0 00 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. Manufactures of gold other than medals, medallions, tablets or other pieces in p ic tor ial relief or bearing inscriptions may be imported without quantitative restriction under Open General License from a ll sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a, and (3) residents of the Sterling A r ea who are sellers of new production. The U. K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of Va of 1 per cent is charged on a ll purchases; there is no commission on sales. The market operates on a spot cash basis. Au thor ized banks may not enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may not finance purchases of gold by nonresidents by lend­ ing foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or Ex ternal Account sterling to nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. Changes during 1971 January 1. A ll quota levels for imports of cotton textiles in 1971 were increased by 1 per cent over the 1970 level. January 1. Imports of sugar from countries outside the International Sugar Agreement were restricted. January 5. The Condom in ium of the New Hebrides ceased to be treated administratively as being within the Sterling A r e a. U N I T ED K I N G D OM January 12. Restrictions were placed on borrowing by U. K. residents from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea to finance expenditure in the Un i ted K ingdom. Au thor ized banks in the Un i ted K ingdom could no longer lend non-Sterling A r ea currency to U. K. resi­ dents other than authorized banks for any purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. U. K. residents other than authorized banks normally would no longer be permitted to borrow non-Sterling A r ea currency from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea for conversion into sterling for use in the Un i ted K ingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a, unless the term of the borrowing was at least five years; consideration would in certain c ir­ cumstances be given to shorter-term borrowing, notably to finance export credit. Outstanding borrowings and existing va l id authorizations to borrow were not affected and the changes did not apply to foreign currency bor­ rowing to finance overseas investment or "books" in foreign currency securities. (Borrowing by U. K. author­ ized banks from nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea for the purpose of on-lending in sterling had already been under de facto control, since such on-lending was con­ trolled by the limits placed on bank lending in the Un i ted K ingdom generally.) In addition, U. K. resi­ dents other than authorized banks would not normally be permitted to borrow sterling or other Sterling A r ea currency from non-Sterling A r ea residents for any purpose. January February 15. The Exchange Con t rol (Deposit of Securities) (Exemption) Order 1970 came into opera­ tion. Two exemptions from the deposit requirement were narrowed. Henceforth a ll foreign currency securi­ ties (except those registered in the Un i ted K ingdom or the Channel Islands other than in a subsidiary register on which none of the dividends or interest is payable on presentment of a coupon), and a ll secondary securities relating to foreign currency securities, had to be placed and kept in the custody of an authorized depository. 16. Fo l low ing the termination at the end of 1970 of dealing in U. S. dollar futures contracts on the London Cotton Term inal Marke t, residents with authority to deal were no longer required to meet their commitments for futures contracts expressed in U. S. dollars by borrowing foreign currency. Once again such payments could be made with official exchange. March 17. An agreement on cereals was signed with the Un i ted States. Undertakings were given with respect to minimum import prices for certain cereals. No import levy would be placed on corn imported for industrial use. March 17. An agreement on cereals was signed with Canada. Undertakings were given with respect to m in i­ mum import prices for certain cereals and related matters. March 17. The import levy arrangements were announced that would be introduced in July for cereals, 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM beef and veal, mutton and lamb, and dairy products other than butter and cheese. March 17. The butter import quota for the year end­ ing M a r ch 31, 1972 was announced as 420,000 tons, 5,000 tons lower than that for the previous year. The cheese quota was announced as 135,575 tons compared with 132,750 tons in the previous year. March 30. Guidelines on lending by banks and finance houses were maintained. The London and Scot­ tish clearing banks were asked that their sterling lending to the domestic private sector and to overseas borrowers (other than fixed-rate lending under the special schemes for export and shipbuilding finance) should not rise in the aggregate during the quarter to mid-June 1971 to more than about 7% per cent above its level at m id- M a r ch 1970 (after allowance for seasonal influences). March 31. Controls over direct investment outside the Sterling A r ea were eased. The l im it on permitted remittances in official exchange for direct investment outside the Sterling A r ea in "super-criterion projects" was raised from £ 5 0 , 0 00 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever was larger, to £ 2 5 0 , 0 00 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever was larger. D irect investments outside the Sterling A r ea other than for "super-criterion projects" henceforth would be con­ sidered on the basis that their capital cost should not fa ll directly upon the official foreign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount had been received in the United K ingdom by way of benefits arising from the investments. The distinction between "cr i ter ion" and "noncriterion" projects was abolished and the three-year pay-back requirement for the former and the five-year restriction on the use of official exchange for both lapsed. A ll projects formerly falling within these two categories could henceforth be financed by the use of investment currency, with foreign currency borrowing (with repayment on a self-liquidating basis), or by exports free of payment. The level of remittances from nonresident companies controlled by U. K. residents would henceforth be considered on a global basis. Pre­ vious exchange control practice, when reviewing the level of profit remittances by companies outside the Sterling A r ea controlled by U. K. residents, was to deal with these subsidiaries on a country-by-country basis, allowing the permitted proportion of retained earnings (normally one third of net earnings after taxes) to be used for reinvestment only in the country in which the earnings arose. The permitted proportion of retained earnings on the new basis remained at the same level, but approval would normally be given for these earnings to be utilized for approved reinvestment in any non-Sterling A r ea country, irrespective of the country in which they originially arose. W i th respect to foreign currency borrowing, the requirement that repayments within five years be made with investment currency or from the proceeds of fur­ ther borrowing was relaxed as follows: Permission would be given for such borrowing to be repaid at any 444 time with official exchange to the extent that foreign currency earnings had been received from the invest­ ment; for super-criterion investments such repayments would be authorized only from earnings in excess of those needed to recoup any remittance of official exchange or to the extent that the fu ll entitlement to official exchange was not taken up in i t ia l ly. March 31. The voluntary program of restraint on overseas investment was continued without change. April 1. The Exchange Con trol (G o ld Coins Exemp­ tion) Order 1971 exempted a ll gold coins, irrespective of their date of minting, from the provisions of Sec­ tions 1, 2, and 3 of the Exchange Con t rol A ct 1947. Consequently, a ll gold coins could be bought and sold, borrowed and lent, and held without exchange control permission. Exports of gold coins remained controlled under Section 22 of the A c t. At the same time, the pro­ hibition on the use of gold for the manufacture of medals, etc., was removed. A ll gold coins, irrespective of date, and medals, etc., were again on Open General Import License (except for Rhodes ia). April 26. It was announced that a scheme was under preparation to insure overseas investment against such noncommercial risks as war, expropriation, and restric­ tions on remittances. April 29. Open individual licenses were granted in supplement of the annual quota system for butter. Con­ trols on butter imports thus were in effect suspended un t il June 30, then subsequently to September 30, 1971 and to M a r ch 31, 1972. In June it was announced that ind iv idual import licenses for ghee, near-butters, and butter oils would be issued freely. May 10. A supplementary quota of 5,000 tons for bananas of Do l lar A r ea origin was established; on September 9, a further supplementary quota of 5,000 tons was established. May 28. As a measure of formal liberalization of the regulations introduced on January 12, authorized banks were permitted, without reference to the Bank of England, to make foreign currency loans to resident exporters, merchants, and participants in commodity schemes for specified trade purposes; no minimum repay­ ment period was required. The measure confirmed existing approval practices. June 29. Insurers in the Un i ted K ingdom were per­ mitted to export insurance policies to nonresidents of the Sterling A rea without formality. Previously, Bank of England approval was required. June 30. It was announced that the tariff on cotton textiles from the Commonwealth Preference A r ea that would replace existing quantitative restrictions on Janu­ ary 1, 1972 would, with minor exceptions, be 85 per cent of the current most-favored-nation rates. July 1. Variable import levies were imposed on mutton and lamb from a ll countries except the Irish Republic. Both minimum import prices and variable levies were introduced for beef and veal and dairy ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution products other than butter and cheese; the Irish Republic was exempt from the variable levies on beef. July 7. The Treasury would no longer insure the exchange risk for foreign currency borrowing by nationalized industries and local authorities for loans of less than ten years. (In M a r ch 1972 the exchange rate guarantee was discontinued entirely.) July 12. A time schedule was agreed with the mem­ ber countries of the E EC for the progressive dismantling of the controls over portfolio and direct investment in E EC countries as well as personal capital transfers to the Commun i ty. July 16. Certain delegated authorities to authorized banks to approve specified current payments ("sundry payments") outside the Sterling A r ea were increased. Applications to pay professional fees and charges relating to direct investments outside the Sterling A r ea no longer had to be referred to the Bank of Eng land. July 19. A new open general import license was granted. Controls on imports from mainland Ch ina were liberalized, mainly by transferring a wide range of items from open general ind iv idual license to open general license; for goods subject to special controls according to origin, mainland Ch ina was enabled to share in import quotas for the Eastern A r e a. July 26. It was announced that generalized tariff preferences for manufactured goods and certain pro­ cessed agricultural products originating in 99 developing countries would be introduced on January 1, 1972. August 13. The Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o rk was asked to activate the reciprocal swap facility in order to provide the Exchange Equalisation Account with forward cover. August 16. The gold market was closed. It reopened on August 17. August 16. The foreign exchange market was closed. The Bank of England subsequently allowed authorized banks, however, to lend foreign currency to residents for payments due to nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea in circumstances where remittances could have been approved under existing authorities ( in such cases, the January 12 measures, i.e., the five-year term require­ ment, would not app ly ). Nonresidents were also allowed to incur temporary overdrafts on their External Accounts to meet any obligations to residents of the Sterling A r e a. August 23. The. foreign exchange market reopened. Wh i le the existing par value of the pound was main­ tained, the official buying rate for the U. S. dollar was suspended. As a result, the pound began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the effective parity relation­ ship for which had been £ 1 = US$2 .40. The Bank of England continued to publish daily dealing limits. August 31. F inanc ial institutions (including building societies, trustee savings banks, and similar bodies) and local authorities were prohibited from accepting sterling deposits or sterling loans from nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. U N I T ED K I N G D OM August 31. Nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea were prohibited from purchasing or subscribing to specified types of sterling securities (sterling certificates of deposit, treasury bills, and government, government-guaranteed, and local authority securities) having fixed maturity dates earlier than October 1, 1976; switching of existing holdings, however, was permitted. August 31. Authorized banks were not permitted to convert foreign currency into sterling on a swap basis for lending to residents to the extent that such conver­ sion would result in their net spot position in foreign currency becoming a short position covered by net forward purchases of foreign currency. Banks which had already carried out such swaps were required to restore their foreign currency positions as the swaps matured. Previously, inward switching had not been restricted. The restriction was lifted on December 20. August 31. Au thor ized banks, discount houses, and other bodies operating sterling accounts for nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea could not, for the time being, pay interest on any increase in the balance on such an account after the opening of business on August 31, 1971 except to the extent that the increase was attribut­ able to accrued interest. September 2. Consistent with the August 31 measures to discourage speculative inflows from overseas, the bank rate was reduced from 6 per cent to 5 per cent. September 14. The restrictions on payment of interest on external accounts introduced on August 31 were relaxed for personal accounts of individuals where balances did not exceed <£ 20,000 or the balance held at the opening of business on August 31, whichever was the greater. App l ica t ions for exemption from the restriction would be considered for certain international bodies and for accounts (not in the nature of imprest accounts) of other international bodies and of foreign governments and their representatives. September 14. Bu i ld ing societies and trustee and other savings banks were exempted from the August 31 restrictions on the acceptance of sterling deposits and loans from nonresidents of the Sterling A r e a. Other financial institutions (such as hire-purchase finance houses) and local authorities were permitted to open new accounts for private individuals resident outside the Sterling A r ea and to accept further deposits from such persons provided, in each case, that the balance in an account did not exceed £ 2 0 , 0 0 0. September 16. New arrangements for the control of credit came into effect. The existing quantitative ceilings on sterling lending by banks and finance houses were removed. September 20. Controls on imports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese were suspended until M a r ch 31, 1972. September 21. The Basle arrangements were renewed. It was announced that 33 of 35 members of the Sterling A r ea who had in 1968 concluded three-year agreements with the Un i ted K ingdom on maintenance of sterling 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED K I N G D OM balances had agreed to extend these agreements to September 24, 1973. (Twenty-nine other members had originally entered into five-year agreements terminating on that date.) The extensions involved an understanding for a uniform reduction in the proportion of sterling which both three- and five-year agreement countries undertook to hold in exchange for a dollar value guarantee on the bulk of those holdings. The change was expected to contribute toward a leveling out in the growth of official sterling balances, consonant with the Un i ted Kingdom's undertaking to the countries of the E EC to "manage its policies with a view to j stabilizing the official sterling balances." September 23. Authorized banks' limits on holdings of spot balances against forward commitments in foreign currency were doubled. The limits on open positions in foreign currency were maintained. The measure was revoked on December 20. October 1. M i n im um import prices were established for imports of poultry meat from a ll sources other than Denmark and Ireland. Cheaper qualities became subject in addition to variable levies. October 7. A ll transfers from and credits to External Accounts were made subject to general or special exchange control permissions given by the Bank of England rather than being permitted under a payments order issued by the Treasury. October 7, The August 31 ban on the acquisition of specified types of sterling securities by nonresidents of the Sterling A r ea was extended to cover such securities of a ll maturities. Switching from existing holdings remained permitted, but pending reinvestment the pro­ ceeds had to be held in a suspense account bearing no interest. Moreover, nonresidents of the Sterling A rea could no longer purchase sterling acceptances or com­ mercial bills or promissory notes denominated in sterling (other than notes which were or had been legal tender in the Sterling Area); the proceeds on sale or maturity of such instruments could not be reinvested in similar instruments or in the precluded securities. October 12. Futures quotations in sterling on the London Cotton Term inal Market were suspended indefinitely. October 25. New customs procedures for exports came into effect. These were intended to give a more accurate record and eliminate the statistical problem of underrecording of exports. November 1. The cost of medium-term and long-term finance for exports (other than for ships) was reduced from 7 per cent to 6V> per cent when supported by 446 an unconditional bank guarantee provided by the E C G D. December November 9. It was announced that imports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese from Eastern European countries would be liberalized from January 1, 1972, when quotas for these imports would be suspended. November 9. The Export Credit Guarantee Depart­ ment, which had previously limited guarantees of buy­ er credits to contracts involving more than two years' credit and over <£1 m i l l ion, reduced this floor to £ 2 5 0 , 0 0 0. November 19. Banks were required to complete token Sterling Transfer Forms and Fo rms E in respect of payments exceeding £ 5 , 0 0 0, or the equivalent in for­ eign currency, from the Un i ted K ingdom to non­ residents of the Sterling A r ea on instructions from residents of Bahrain, Kuwa i t, Oman, Qatar, and other G u lf Emirates. December 8. It was announced that w i th effect from January 1, 1972 imports of cotton textiles from the Commonwealth Preference A r ea would become subject to customs duties ranging from 6V2 per cent to 17 per cent ad valorem; the existing general system of quanti­ tative restrictions on these imports would be maintained. 14. It was announced that quantitative restrictions on imports of some agricultural and other products originating in or consigned from the Eastern A r ea would be lifted on January 1, 1972; the products included poultry meat and certain m i lk products. December 15. The L iby an A r ab Republic ceased to be a member of the Sterling A r e a. December 20. The par value in terms of gold was maintained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U . S. dollar became £1 = US$2 .60571. A middle rate for the U. S. dollar in terms of sterling was announced of £ 1 = US$2 .6057. The Un i ted K ingdom would avail itself of wider margins. December 20. Restrictions on authorized banks' con­ versions of foreign currency into sterling on a swap basis introduced on August 31 were removed. The restrictions on interest payments on External Account balances and on purchases of specified sterling securities introduced on August 31 and October 7 were removed, as were the restrictions on the acceptance of sterling deposits and loans by financial institutions and local authorities introduced on August 31 and September 14. December 20. The foreign exchange market was closed. It reopened on December 21. December 21. The Bank of England set new official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar at US$2.6643 and US$2.5471 per £ 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES Exchange Rate System T he p ar v a l ue of the U n i t ed States D o l l ar is 15 %i g ra ins of g o ld 9/ io fine (0 .888671 g r am of fine g o l d ) .1 T he c o n v e r t i b i l i ty of the U. S. d o l l ar i n to g o ld a nd o ther rese rve assets has been suspended a nd exchange rates are not m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in any s t ipu l a t ed m a r g in f r om p a r i t y. T h e re are no r e s t r i c t i o ns on f o r e i gn p a y­ men t s, except those im p o s ed for s e cu r i ty reasons on t r an s a c t ions i n v o l v i ng the au tho r i t i es or n a t i o n a ls of C u b a, N o r th K o r e a, a nd N o r th V i e t - N a m, a nd those im p o s ed p u r s u a nt to UN S e c u r i ty C o u n c il R e s o l u t i o ns N o s. 2 32 a nd 253 on any t ran s fer of funds to, or on b e h a lf of, or f or the benefit of, any p e r s on in R h o d e s ia ( i n c l u d i ng the au tho r i t i es the reo f ). T he U n i t ed States f o rm a l ly no t i f i ed the F u nd on D e c em b er 10, 1946 that it was p r e p a r ed to accept the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t i c le V I I I, S e c t ions 2, 3, a nd 4, of the F u nd A g r e em e n t. Administration of Control T he T r e a s u ry D e p a r tm e nt dea ls w i th l i c en se a p p l i­ c a t i o ns i n v o l v i ng f i n a n c i al or c o m m e r c i al t r an s a c t ions d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly w i th C u b a, N o r th K o r e a, R h o­ de s ia, a nd N o r th V i e t - N a m, or t h e ir n a t i o n a l s, as sp e c i­ f ied u n d er the F o r e i gn A s s e ts C o n t r ol R e g u l a t i o n s, the C u b an A s s e ts C o n t r ol R e g u l a t i o n s, a nd the R h o d e- s i an S a n c t i o ns R e g u l a t i o n s. It a lso dea ls w i th l icen se a p p l i c a t i o ns i n v o l v i ng the b l o c k ed a c coun ts in the U n i t ed States of m a i n l a nd C h i na u n d er the F o r e i gn A s s e ts C o n t r ol R e g u l a t i o n s. T he f o r e i gn d i r e ct inves t­ m ent p r o g r am is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the Off ice of F o r e i gn D i r e ct Inves tmen ts in the D e p a r tm e nt of C o m m e r c e. T he F e d e r al R e s e r ve B o a rd adm in i s t e rs the v o l u n t a ry f o r e i gn c r e d it r e s t r a int p r o g r am for b anks a nd o th er f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s. T he B u r e au of C u s t oms of the T r e a s u ry D e p a r tm e nt adm in i s t e rs im p o rt quo ta s; s u ch quo tas, h ow e v e r, are g en e r a l ly e s tab l i shed a nd a l l o c a t ed by o th er agenc ies. Im p o rt quo tas on spec i f ied d a i ry p r o d u c ts are a dm i n i s t e r ed by the D e p a r tm e nt of A g r i­ c u l t u re t h r o u gh the issuance of im p o rt l icen se s. T he im p o rt quo t as on sugar are a l l o t t ed am o ng e l i g i b le e x p o r t i ng coun t r i es in a c c o r d a n ce w i th a s ta tu to ry f o r­ m u la a dm i n i s t e r ed by the D e p a r tm e nt of A g r i c u l t u re a nd are p r o r a t ed am o ng e l i g i b le im p o r t e rs u n d er r e g u l a­ t ions a dm i n i s t e r ed by that D e p a r tm e n t. L i c e n s es f or im p o r ts of c rude p e t r o l e um a nd p e t r o l e um p r o d u c ts are i s sued by the D e p a r tm e nt of the I n t e r i o r. F or i tems subject to e x p o rt c o n t r o l, the D e p a r tm e nt of C o m m e r ce i s, in gene ra l, the re spon s ib le a u t h o r i t y. Imports and Import Payments T he im p o r t a t i on of m e r c h a n d i s e, as w e ll as p a y- * T he par value was changed on M ay 8, 1972 to 0.818513 gram of fine gold, equivalent to US$38 a fine ounce. m e nt th e r e fo r, is p r o h i b i t ed u n d er T r e a s u ry r egu l a t ion s, un less l i c e n s e d, if s u ch m e r c h a n d i se is of C u b a n, N o r th K o r e a n, N o r th V i e t n am e s e, or R h o d e s i an o r i g i n. Im p o rt quo tas are in effect, p u r s u a nt to S e c t i on 22 of the A g r i c u l t u r al A d j u s tm e nt A c t, as am e n d e d, f or c o t t o n, c e r t a in c o t t on was te, a nd c e r t a in sem ip roce s sed c o t t on p r o d u c t s, wheat a nd wh e at p r o d u c t s, mo st d a i ry p rodu c t s, a nd peanu ts. W i th the e x c e p t i on of the im p o rt quo tas f or peanu ts, c e r t a in c o t t on a nd c o t t on p r o d u c t s, bu t ter o i l, a nd a spec i f ied p o r t i on of the q u o ta f or c h e d d ar cheese, the quo tas above a nd those f or sugar ( p u r s u a nt to s p e c i al l e g i s l a t i o n) are on a c o u n t r y - o f- p r o d u c t i on bas is. T he U n i t ed States is a p a r ty to the L o n g - T e rm C o t t on T e x t i l es A r r a n g em e n t, w h i ch au tho­ r izes i m p o r t i ng coun t r i es to request e x p o r t i ng coun t r i es to l i m it or r e s t r a in expo r ts of c o t t on tex t i les u n d er spec i f ied c o n d i t i o n s, a n d, if the e x p o r t i ng c o u n t ry does not accede, to im p o se an im p o rt q u o t a. T he U n i t ed States has c o n c l u d ed c om p r e h e n s i ve b i l a t e r al agreemen ts u n d er the L o n g - T e rm C o t t on T e x t i le A g r e em e nt gov­ e r n i ng im p o r ts of c o t t on tex t i le s, a nd agreemen ts on m a n -m a de a nd w o o l en tex t i les h ave b e en r e a ch ed w i th the m a in s u p p l y i ng c o u n t r i e s. G l o b al quo tas are im p o s ed on im p o r ts of c r u de p e t r o l e um a nd c e r t a in p e t r o l e um p r o d u c t s. In p r a c t i ce im p o r ts of aspha lt i n to C u s t oms D i s t r i c ts I - IV (east of the R o c ky M o u n t a i n s) a nd of r e s i d u al fuel o il for b u r n i ng i n to D i s t r i ct I ( N ew E n g l a nd a nd the E a st C o a st r e g i o n) are v i r t u a l ly u n r e­ s t r i c t ed. Im p o r ts of f re sh, f r o z e n, or c h i l l ed beef, v e a l, a nd m u t t on are g o v e r n ed by b i l a t e r al agreemen ts as an a l t e rn a t ive to m a n d a t o ry quo tas u n d er the M e at Im p o rt A ct of 1964. T he t ran s fer of funds to R h o d e s ia f or mo st p u r­ poses (see s e c t ion on E x c h a n ge R a te Sy s t em, above) is p e rm i t t ed o n ly u n d er l i c en s e. O t h er p a ym e n ts a nd t rans fe rs a b r o ad m ay be m ade f r e e ly, w i th c e r t a in ex c ep t ions w h i ch are p e rm i t t ed o n ly u n d er l i c en s e; these ex c ep t ions are p a ym e n ts to or f or the a c c o u nt of the au tho r i t i es or n a t i o n a ls of C u b a, N o r th K o r e a, a nd N o r th V i e t - N a m. Exports and Export Proceeds M u n i t i o ns c an be e x p o r t ed o n ly u n d er l i c en se i s sued by the Off ice of M u n i t i o ns C o n t r ol in the D e p a r tm e nt of S ta te. L i c e n s es are n ot g r an t ed f or expo r ts of a rms a nd amm u n i t i on to S o u th A f r i c a. M o st expo r ts to R h o d e s ia r e q u i re l icenses a nd g e n e r a l ly no l icenses are issued except f or f o od a nd h um a n i t a r i an i tem s. M o st expo r ts to the U. S. S. R. a nd the c o u n t r i es of E a s t e rn E u r o pe o ther t h an Y u g o s l a v i a, c e r t a in expo r ts to m a i n­ l a nd C h i n a, a nd a ll expo r ts (except p h o n o g r a ph r e c o r d s, p u b l i c a t i o n s, a n d, to C u b a, l im i t ed g ift p a r c e l s) to C u b a, N o r th K o r e a, a nd N o r th V i e t - N a m, are sub ject to i n d i v i d u al v a l i d a t ed l icen se s. E x p o r ts of des igna ted s t ra teg ic m a t e r i a ls a nd e q u i pm e nt to a ll o th er coun t r i es 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES (except Canada) also require ind iv idual validated licenses. F or many commodities, when exported to Western European countries, Aus tra l ia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland and Ruman ia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugo s lav ia ); w i th in this group of other Eastern Eu ro­ pean countries, the requirements are restrictive on certain items for Eastern Germany. Exports of certain com­ modities to a ll destinations have from time to time been subject to control for reasons of short supply. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are pro­ hibited to and from Cuba, No r th Ko rea, N o r th V ie t- N am, and Rhodesia. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involving Cuba, N o r th Ko rea, N o r th V i e t -N am, and Rhodesia. U. S. citizens or residents, when purchasing foreign stocks and debt obligations (including shares in off­ shore mutual funds) from foreigners, are subject to an Interest Equalization Tax equivalent to a borrowing charge of % of 1 per cent a year (the rate of tax being 11.25 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 0.79 per cent to 11.25 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, including bank loans, w i th a period remaining to maturity of one year or mo re ). Ma jor exemptions from the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed coun­ tries,2 purchases from other U. S. holders, debt obliga­ tions acquired in connection with exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the Un i ted States determines that the application of the tax w i ll have such consequences for a foreign country as to impe r il or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, pursuant to which new or original Canadian obligations are exempt, as are bank loans, whether denominated in U. S. dollars or foreign currencies and regardless of maturity, that are made by foreign branches of U. S. banks to foreign borrowers. A voluntary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in respect of their foreign assets. A mandatory foreign direct investment program has placed restraints on direct investment by setting annual limits on net capital outflow plus reinvested earnings, prescribing that the total amount of investment each year be limited to a percentage of the amount invested in the base pe r iod ,3 and l im i t ing the amount of short-term financial assets held abroad by direct investors. A direct investor is defined as a person within the Un i ted States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, right to receive income, or right to receive assets on liquidation of a foreign national. Three regional ceilings are enforced on the making of direct investment during any year by direct investors which do not elect the m in imum world-wide allowable of US$2 m i l l i o n: one for less developed coun t r ies ;4 one for other countries judged to be dependent on a substantial continuing inflow of capital that cannot be adequately met from non -U. S. sou rces ;5 and one for a ll other countries.6 There is in principle an embargo on net capital out­ flows to this group of countries as a whole, including most of continental Western Europe, but direct investors are virtually free to finance new or additional direct investments in Schedule C countries with long-term funds and rolled-over short-term funds borrowed in any foreign country. Funds raised abroad may be used to finance direct investments without a current charge against a company's ceilings. Canada is exempt from a ll balance of payments restraints, except for the application of the Interest Equa l iza t ion Tax to some transactions. Gold Residents may import, purchase, ho ld, and sell for numismatic purposes domestic and foreign gold coins minted before 1934. G o ld coins minted after this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins minted in or after 1934, and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional numismatic value. Import licenses are not normally issued for coins minted in 1960 or after. The import of counterfeit coins and restrikes is prohibited. G o ld bu l l ion may not be held in the Un i ted States except by monetary authorities and licensed industrial, professional, and artistic users. The purchase or holding of gold abroad by U. S. citizens and firms is also pro- 2 Among other countries the tax is applicable to Abu Dhabi, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The law provides that the following cannot be designated as less developed countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechten­ stein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European countries at present designated as less developed countries are Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Malta, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 3 Where the regulations require a company to repatriate more income than is allowed by host country laws or by business circumstances, such as certain joint ownership situations, unconditional specific relief may be granted by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments. 4 As defined for the purposes of the Interest Equalization Tax (see footnote 2). They are referred to as Schedule A countries. 5 Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Bermuda, Canada, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, and United Kingdom. They are referred to as Sched­ ule B countries. 6 Referred to as Schedule C countries. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution hibited except under license for industrial, professional, or artistic use. Licensing authority is vested in the Sec­ retary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their output at free market prices either to licensed industrial users or abroad (except to monetary authorities). G o ld may be freely imported by licensed users within the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recovered from natural deposits in the Un i ted States, which may be exported without license. Commerc ial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restric­ tion. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bu l­ l ion are free of customs duties and other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, inc lud ing gold jewelry, are subject to excise duty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other form, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. The use of the international reserve assets of the Un i ted States has been limited to settlement of out­ standing obligations and, in cooperation with the Inter­ national Monetary Fund, to other situations that might arise in which such use could contribute to international monetary stability and the interests of the Un i ted States. January Changes during 1971 1. A Presidential Order imposed annual import quotas on four dairy products. January 1. The ban on transshipments of Aus tra l ian, New Zealand, and Irish beef from Canada to the Un i ted States was continued. January 1. The following changes in the direct invest­ ment controls came into effect. The allowable quota for new net direct investment abroad, exempt from control, was doubled to US$2 m i l l ion. The amount of cumula­ tive direct investment that must be exceeded before quarterly reporting is required in any year also was increased from US$1 m i l l ion to US$2 m i l l ion. January 5. The guidelines under the voluntary foreign credit restraint ( V F C R) program were revised with immediate effect. No change was made in the overall guideline ceilings already in effect, but certain technical changes were made which were designed to equalize treatment under the guidelines between banks and other financial institutions and to give banks greater flexibility in using their existing leeway under the general ceiling for export financing. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the Un i ted States is a member were excluded from the guidelines. Export credits were exempted from a subceiling that limited short-term credits to residents of developed countries of continen­ tal Western Europe, although banks would still be required to report these credits under their general ceiling. January 7. The Treasury and Commerce Departments and the Federal Reserve System announced their inten­ tion to continue in 1971 the three existing programs to restrain capital outflows. The Treasury wou ld request U N I T ED S T A T ES the Congress to extend authority for the Interest Equa l i­ zation Tax, wh ich was to expire on M a r ch 31, 1971. There would be some technical changes in the direct investment program and the V F CR program, but these were designed merely to facilitate administration and compliance consistent with the need to continue restraint for the period ahead. January 7. In accordance with its decision of Novem­ ber 30, 1970, the Federal Reserve Board ( F R B) amended the Supplement to Regulation D and amen­ ded Regulation M for the purpose of strengthening the inducement for U. S. banks to retain their Euro-dollar liabilities and thus moderate the pace of repayment of Euro-dollar borrowings. The Board raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent the reserves required to be maintained by member banks against Euro-dollar borrowings that exceeded the amounts that the banks were allowed as a reserve-free base. (The higher requirement became effective in the four-week reserve computation period ended December 23, 1970.) The marginal reserve requirement was made applicable to borrowings above either (1) the minimum base equal to a percentage of deposits, or (2) the average level in the reserve computa­ tion period ended November 25, 1970, whichever was higher. The Board also amended its regulations to dis­ courage repayment of Euro-dollar liabilities not only by banks that used a historically determined reserve-free base originally related to their M ay 1969 borrowings, but also by those banks that operated under a m in imum base equal to 3 per cent of their overall deposits sub­ ject to reserve requirements. The amendment applied the automatic downward adjustment to reserve-free bases of the latter k ind as well as of the former. (This amendment became effective w i th the computation period ending January 20, 1971.) January 7. The Cap i tal Projects guidelines of the Agency for International Development ( A I D) were liberalized in implementation of the policy of "untying" of procurement source restrictions for loan-financed commodities and services. January 15. Special Export-Import Bank and U. S. Treasury securities began to be issued which were designed to provide an investment outlet for Eu ro­ dollar funds held by foreign branches of U. S. banks, thus reducing incentives to return funds to the Eu ro­ dollar banks. The Export-Import Bank sold US$1 .5 b i l­ l ion of three-month securities in January and February, and in A p r il the Treasury issued US$1 .5 b i l l ion of short-term certificates of indebtedness. These two kinds of special issues reached a high of US$3 .2 b i l l ion in mid-August, when they were allowed to run off, and were completely retired by October. (The Export- Import Bank notes were replaced by Treasury securi­ ties around mid-year.) January 15. The Export-Import Bank announced that it would offer US$1 b i l l ion of three-month notes at 6 per cent to the foreign branches of U. S. banks. On February 23, the Bank announced an additional three- 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES April month borrowing of US$0 .5 b i l l ion. The Bank refinanced the original issue upon its maturity in A p r i l. January 15. The F RB amended Regulation M to per­ mit U. S. banks to count toward maintenance of their reserve-free Euro-dollar bases any funds invested by their overseas branches in Export-Import Bank securities offered<under the program announced by the Bank on that date. January 15. The F RB postponed for four weeks, for those banks that had a m in imum (3 per cent of deposits) reserve-free base, the application of the auto­ matic downward adjustment of their bases. January 19. Restrictions were relaxed on exports of about 100 items to Eastern Europe and the U. S. S. R. January 28. Licenses ceased to be required for exports of copper to countries other than Cuba, Rhodesia, and communist countries in A s i a. March 11. The Export-Import Bank signed a guaran­ tee and credit agreement with the Private Export Fund­ ing Corporation, a newly established private corporation aimed at tapping longer-term financing than had been available for private banks. March 13. Pursuant to Presidential Proclamations, the limit on meat imports for 1971 was established at 1,160 m i l l ion pounds. 1. To help avert an additional increase in foreign central banks' dollar holdings, the Treasury announced plans to offer US$1.5 b i l l ion in three-month certificates of indebtedness to foreign branches of U. S. banks. April 1. The F RB amended Regulation M to permit U. S. banks to count toward maintenance of their reserve-free Euro-dollar bases any funds invested by their overseas branches in U. S. Treasury securities offered under the program announced on A p r il 1 by the Treasury. April 2. It was announced that, in view of technical difficulties, it was not proposed to end the exemption of short-term bank transactions from the Interest Equ a l i­ zation Tax. Legislation extending the tax through M a r ch 31, 1973 became effective. 14. The President announced that financial, commercial, and shipping controls with respect to main­ land Ch ina would be relaxed. April 16. Export controls were lifted on walnut logs, bolts, lumber and veneers, and certain semifabricated forms of copper. May 7. The Secretary of the Treasury announced the issuance of a general license removing with immediate effect a ll controls on the use of dollars or dollar instru­ ments in transactions with mainland Ch ina and its nationals. The Treasury's Foreign Assets Con t rol Regu­ lations were amended to remove the prohibition against U. S.-controlled foreign flag vessels calling at mainland China's ports. The new general license replaced the specific licensing procedure in effect since December 1950. The amendments did not pertain to those accounts in the United States which had been blocked under the April 4 50 Foreign Assets Con t rol Regulations; these accounts would remain blocked. U. S. banks could henceforth act as intermediaries in normal financial transactions between the Un i ted States and mainland C h i na and its nationals, including remittances for family support and for humanitarian and other purposes. May 7. The Departments of Commerce and Trans­ portation announced certain relaxation measures in respect of shipping, bunkering, and servicing when related to mainland Ch ina. June 3. Licensing was approved for export to the U. S. S. R. of US$50 m i l l ion of equipment, chiefly for the manufacture of light trucks. June 11. The Treasury issued a general license remov­ ing the existing restrictions on imports from mainland Ch in a. June 11. A detailed list came into effect of com­ modities that could henceforth be exported to mainland Ch ina under general license. June 11. Sales of wheat, wheat flour, and other grains to mainland Ch ina, Eastern Europe, and the U. S. S. R. no longer required the prior approval of the Department of Commerce. The requirement that 50 per cent of U. S. exports of wheat, flour, and other grains to mainland Ch in a, Eastern Europe, and the U. S. S. R. be carried in U. S. vessels was also lifted. July 22. The Treasury amended its G o ld Regulations, with immediate effect, to reaffirm and clarify the long­ standing policy that speculation in gold in any form was prohibited. The amendments explicitly prohibited the trading of gold in any form on commodity exchanges and the acquisition of U. S. or foreign gold coins of any description for speculative purposes. August 10. It was announced that credit would hence­ forth be denied to any foreign country that nationalized U. S. private property without giving an immediate commitment on acceptable terms of compensation. August 15. The President issued a Proclamation declaring a national emergency, suspending temporarily the convertibility of the U. S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets, and imposing with effect from August 16 a temporary import surcharge. August 15. The Secretary of the Treasury notified the International Monetary Fund that, effective as of that date, the Un i ted States would no longer freely buy and sell gold for the settlement of international trans­ actions under the second sentence of A r t i c le I V, Section 4(b), of the Fund's Ar t ic les of Agreement. Previously, the Treasury had sold gold at US$35 a fine ounce to governments and central banks abroad, and, under certain circumstances, to international institutions, for the settlement of international balances and other legiti­ mate monetary purposes. (Subsequently, the U. S. authorities did not intervene in the exchange market to influence the exchange rate of the U. S. dollar and the currency began to depreciate in terms of certain foreign currencies.) August 15. It was announced that the Secretary of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Treasury had strictly limited further use of U. S. inter­ national reserve assets to the settlement of outstanding obligations and, in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, to other situations that might arise in which such use could contribute to international mone­ tary stability and the interests of the Un i ted States. August 15. The Secretary of the Treasury requested the Federal Reserve System to suspend the virtually automatic use of its swap network for the purpose of converting dollars into other currencies; the future operation of these and other mutual credit facilities with foreign countries would be determined in the light of emerging developments. August 15. It was announced that the official U. S. dollar price of gold had not been altered by the suspen­ sion of convertibility, and that the President had directed that that price be maintained. Moreover, the functioning of the two-tier gold system decided upon in M a r ch 1968 should not be affected, nor was it intended to be. No new decision had been made with respect to the several restraints on capital outflows abroad. The restraints remained in effect, and their future disposition would be under review. August 15. The President proposed a Job Develop­ ment T ax Credit applicable to purchases of new pro­ ducers' durable equipment. Subsequent statements of po l icy confined the proposed tax credit to domestically produced new machinery and equipment as long as the import surcharge remained in effect. August 16. A temporary import surcharge of generally 10 per cent ad valorem was imposed on dutiable imports, irrespective of or ig in. The tax applied only to goods on which duties had been reduced from the 1930 level under reciprocal trade agreements, and in no case did it raise a duty beyond the statutory ceiling prescribed in column 2 (the 1930 tariff) of the U. S. tariff schedules; where a statutory ceiling existed, the surcharge was less than 10 per cent (for auto­ mobiles, for example, it was 6.5 per cen t). A ll imports subject to mandatory quantitative restrictions imposed under statute were exempt from the surcharge; these included petroleum, sugar, meat, dairy products, certain other agricultural products, and cotton textiles covered by the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Agreement. The sur­ charge affected about one half of U. S. imports by value. August 17. The Export Expansion Finance A ct of 1971, Pub l ic Law 92-126, was enacted. Am o ng other things, it directed the removal of export credits from the V F CR program. (On August 18 the F RB requested banks and other financial institutions to continue to comply with the existing program for the time being.) It also had the effect of authorizing the President to extend Export-Import Bank credits to further exports to communist countries when he found this to be in the national interest. (In his first use of this authority, the President on December 1 directed the Bank to partici­ pate in financing exports to Rumania.) Receipts and U N I T ED S T A T ES disbursements of the Export-Import Bank were removed from Federal unified budget totals. August 23. The Secretary of the Treasury issued Add i t ional Du ty Order N o. 2, which exempted from the temporary import surcharge a number of items, including beef, veal, and mutton; certain dairy prod­ ucts, wheat, peanuts, and cotton; crude o i l, unfinished oils, finished o il products, and certain petrochemicals; cotton textiles subject to quantitative restraints under the long-term international cotton textile agreement; and sugar. September 7. It was announced that, whenever applicable on goods of Philippine origin, the temporary surcharge would be assessed only up to a maximum of 8 per cent, under the terms of the U. S.-Philippine trade agreement. September 7. The Treasury announced that it was not renewing a maturing tranche of special certificates placed with foreign branches of U. S. banks. By October 26 a ll of the US$3 b i l l ion of special certificates issued between January 25, 1971 and A p r il 7, 1971 had been retired. October 15. Fo l low ing the negotiation of self- limitation agreements w i th certain major suppliers (including Japan), imports of man-made and woolen textiles from a ll sources were exempted from the tem­ porary surcharge, with retroactive effect from October 1. October 19. The F RB extended the deadline for the application by banks of the reporting and record­ keeping rules provided for by Titles I and II of the Foreign Bank Secrecy A ct ( PL 91-508, enacted on October 26, 1970). (With effect from M ay 1, 1972, financial institutions were required to report to the Government a ll transactions of more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, and any individual entering or leaving the United States with more than US$5,000 in cash or in bearer instruments, or trans­ porting such instruments by ma i l, messenger, or com­ mon carrier, was required to file a report with customs officials.) November 1. A new F RB regulation, Regulation X, came into force. It implemented Title III of the Foreign Bank Secrecy A ct ( PL 91-508). The Regulation required persons borrowing in the United States to comply with the margin regulations applicable to the lender extending him credit on securities, and required U. S. persons borrowing abroad (w i th certain excep­ tions) to comply with the provisions of the margin regulation that would apply if the credit were obtained in the Un i ted States. Foreign subsidiaries of U. S. cor­ porations making markets in Euro-bonds were exempt. October 14. The President signed into law amend­ ments to the U. S. Sugar A ct of 1948. These included provisions for an annual quota, beginning in 1972, for imports of certain sweetened chocolate, candy, and confectionery products. November 5. The President signed a Proclamation extending indefinitely the importation of N o. 2 fuel o il 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U N I T ED S T A T ES into the Northeast and increasing the quota by 5,000 barrels a day to 45,000 barrels. The proclamation also provided for increased flexibility in administration; the Secretary of the Interior would be empowered to waive source limitations in the light of price or supply con­ ditions, and to permit the diversion of fuel o il quotas for increased imports of crude o il if appropriate. November 11. The guidelines under the V F CR were revised, chiefly to bring them into conformity with recent legislation. Export credits to foreigners by banks and nonbank financial institutions were excluded from the ceilings. Export credits were defined as credits that financed either the shipment of goods produced in the Un i ted States or the performance abroad of services by U. S. nationals; they could be either direct credits financing exports or indirect credits to foreign financial institutions that in turn would utilize these funds to finance U. S. exports. A new formula was set for calculating ceilings. The ceiling for nonexport financing of each bank would be the highest of (a) 85 per cent of its general ceiling on September 30, 1971; (b) its general ceiling on Septem­ ber 30, 1971 minus any export credits subject to that ceiling as of that date; or (c) 2 per cent of its total assets as of December 31, 1970. The ceiling for non- export financing of each nonbank financial institution would be the higher of (a) its ceiling on September 30, 1971 minus export credits subject to that ceiling as of that date; or (b) 85 per cent of its ceiling on Septem­ ber 30, 1971. The export term-loan ceiling was discontinued. The subceiling on short-term claims on residents of developed countries of continental Western Europe was eliminated. Reporting requirements were imposed on U. S. agencies and branches of foreign banks. An exemption for nonbank financial institutions was narrowed in respect of long-term investments to finance o il tankers. November 11. As a result of the exemption of export credit extended to foreigners from restraint under the V F CR guidelines, the discounting of export credit obligations of affiliated foreign nationals on or after November 11 w i th banks or other financial institutions subject to the V F CR guidelines would not reduce direct investment for purposes of the foreign direct investment regulations. November 12. The Foreign Credit Insurance Associa­ tion was given wider authority to insure U. S. exports at its own discretion and without the prior approval of the Export-Import Bank. November 17. The President signed legislation wh ich would terminate as of January 1, 1972, the ban on the importation of strategic and cr i t ical materials from Rho­ desia, by removing the President's authority to ban such imports. December 1. The 1970 amendments to the Bank Ho ld ing Company A ct became effective. The regula­ tions, defining the types of business activities in wh ich 452 foreign bank holding companies might engage in the United States, had been announced by the F RB on November 12. December 9. The deadline for compliance w i th the 1971 ceilings under the foreign direct investment con­ trols was extended for 60 days beyond the end of 1971 because of international monetary uncertainties, and a year-end repatriation requirement for certain proceeds on long-term foreign borrowing that were held abroad was eliminated for the current year. December 10. W i th the signing into law of the Revenue A ct of 1971, the Job Development Investment Credit provisions became effective. Businesses were granted a tax credit equal to 7 per cent of the cost of new producers' durable equipment either ordered from domestic firms after M a r ch 31, 1971, or acquired after August 15, 1971, with minor exceptions. December 10. Under provisions of the Revenue A ct of 1971, U . S. exporters were able to enjoy tax treat­ ment partially comparable to that of U. S. producers located abroad. The law provided for a new type of cor­ poration to be known as a Domestic International Sales Corporation ( D I S C ). Taxes on 50 per cent of a DISC'S income cou ld be deferred indefinitely, provided that 95 per cent of the DISC'S receipts and assets related to qualified exports. Loans to a parent company to finance research and development expenditures, inventory accu­ mulation, or investment in plant and equipment could be counted as export-related assets, so long as the pro­ portion wh ich these loans bore to total expenditures for such purposes did not exceed the proportion of the bor­ rower's total sales accounted for by exports. Dividends to D I SC stockholders were to be fully taxed. The tax deferral on any D I SC profits which were lent to parent companies wou ld be terminated if such profits were judged to have been invested in foreign plant and equipment. December 18. Agreement was reached w i th in the G roup of Ten on a realignment of exchange rates. The Un i ted States agreed, subject to Congressional approval, to raise the dollar price of gold by 8.57 per cent, from US$35 to US$38 a fine ounce, as soon as a related set of short-term trade expansion measures (to be developed through negotiations with Canada, Japan, and the E EC countries) was available for Congressional scrutiny. The Un i ted States also agreed to lift the import sur­ charge with immediate effect. December 20. The temporary import surcharge was eliminated. At the same time pursuant to the Revenue A ct of 1971, and as a result of the removal of the import surcharge, property produced abroad or pre­ dominantly of foreign origin henceforth qualified for the Job Development Investment Credit if acquired on or after December 20, 1971, provided the property was not ordered during the surcharge period (August 16 through December 19, 1971). December 20. The President raised the 1972 quota of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution o il imports into states east of the Ro cky Mountains by 100,000 barrels a day over the 1971 level to a total of 1.55 m i l l ion barrels a day. Two thirds of the increase was allocated to Canadian suppliers. December 22. The Econom ic Stabilization A ct ( PL 92-210) was approved, by wh ich Congress amended the Econom ic Stabilization A ct of 1970 and extended its effectiveness un t il A p r il 30, 1973. Among other things, the A ct authorized the President to issue such orders and regulations as he deemed appropriate to stabilize interest rates. December 23. The Treasury announced that the final stage of the Kennedy Round tariff reductions would become effective as scheduled on January 1, 1972. U N I T ED S T A T ES 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER V O L TA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper V o l ta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the C FA F r a n c ,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of C F AF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans­ actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest ( B C E A O) and commercial banks take place at the rate of C F AF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange transactions relating to foreign countries, i. e., countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r e a, take place in a dual exchange market at rates based on the fixed rate for the F rench franc and the Paris exchange rate for the foreign currency concerned in either the official exchange market or the financial franc market. Settlements eligible for the official exchange market are payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, and incidental expenses on imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc .), as well as current payments by or in favor of domestic and foreign public authorities and public bodies. A ll other settlements with foreign countries, as well as transactions in banknotes of foreign countries and banknotes issued by the B C E A O, take place through the financial franc market at freely fluctuating rates. Exchange rates in the official market are based on par values and central rates; the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in this market is C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera­ tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, M a l i, Maur i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, a ll payments to these countries may be made freely. A ll other countries, except Upper Vo l ta itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan­ c ial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Pub l ic Accounts in the M in is t ry of Finance and C om­ merce, wh ich also supervises borrowing abroad, the I1 The C FA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 454 issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper V o l t a, inward direct investment and a ll outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper V o l ta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control, except for imports and exports of gold and business travel allocations in excess of C F AF 400,000, has been delegated to the B C E AO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter­ mediaries. The B C E AO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, any information neces­ sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. A ll exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the B C E A O. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce at the M in is t ry of Finance and Commerce. Import certifi­ cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper V o l ta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc A r e a, since the B C E AO maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury; settle­ ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the F rench Terr i tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera­ tions Account countries of the French Franc A r ea are made in C FA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Cer ta in settle­ ments w i th Ghana are made through special accounts. Settlements w i th a ll other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in F rench francs through Fore ign or F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. A ll settlements w i th Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. B C E AO bank­ notes may be credited to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the B C E AO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc A r ea may be made freely. Imports from E EC countries are liberalized and require only an import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution certificate. Most imports from other countries are sub­ ject to licensing. Imports from n o n -EEC countries out­ side the French Franc A r ea are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established up to which import licen­ ses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. Imports from Ghana are subject to special reg­ ulations. F or goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. A ll import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 500,000. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi­ ties have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French F ranc A r ea are permitted freely; those to other coun­ tries are subject to exchange control approval, wh ich for many invisibles has been delegated to the author­ ized banks. A ll payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Res­ idents traveling for tourism to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc A r ea may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip ( C F AF 87,500 for ch i l­ dren under ten ); any foreign exchange in excess of C F AF 5,000 remaining after return to Upper V o l ta must be surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maxi­ mum of C F AF 25,000 in B C E AO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the F rench Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in B C E AO banknotes, but if their des­ tination is not to a member country of the West A f r i c an Monetary U n i o n, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds C F AF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out, in addi­ tion to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of C F AF 25,000 or (if it was either declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a F inanc ial Account in Francs or an Account in Fore ign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc .), any larger amount. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper V o l ta U P P ER V O L TA by debit to a F inanc ial Account in Francs or an Account in Fore ign Currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc A r ea may be made freely but for statistical purposes require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Exports to a ll other countries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export pro­ ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surren­ dered. A ll export transactions relating to foreign coun­ tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds C F AF 50,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change) and submit a customs certification (attesta­ tion dJ exportation). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc A r ea may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earn­ ings must not be received in or from Rhodesia. Resi­ dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the B C E A O, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc A r e a. Resident travelers must within eight days surrender to an authorized bank any foreign means of payment in excess of C F AF 5,000 that they bring i n. Capital A ll capital movements between Upper Vo l ta and Rhodesia are prohibited. Cap i tal movements between Upper V o l ta and France, Monaco, and other Opera­ tions Account countries in the French Franc A rea are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper V o l t a; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper 4 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U P P ER V O L TA Vo l ta, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territo­ ries (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and those other coun­ tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign p r i­ vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. A ll investments abroad by residents of Upper V o l ta require prior authorization by the Minister of F inance .2 Foreign direct investments in Upper V o l t a3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial liquidation of either type of investment also is subject to prior declaration to the M in is ter. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper V o l ta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Vo l ta, must be reported to the M in is ter of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par­ ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro­ vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Vo l ta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper V o l ta Govern­ ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Vo l ta has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires p r ior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza­ t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Vo l ta, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transac­ tions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa­ nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa­ nies in Upper Volta. P Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 456 amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed C F AF 100 m i l l ion for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the B C E A O, acting on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance. The lending of C FA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years, however, is freely permitted. Ordinance N o. 7 0 - 0 7 4 / P R E S / P L - TP of December 31, 1970, the Investment Code, provides preferential treat­ ment for foreign investment in Upper Vo l t a. Two pref­ erential categories (A and B) are established, in accord­ ance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negoti­ ated between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Law N o. 2 5 / 6 1 / AN set up an assistance fund for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper V o l t a. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the M in is t ry of Finance and Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the B C E A O; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1971 May 3. The payments arrangement w i th Ghana of December 14, 1970 came into force. May 25. The amount beyond which import transac­ tions relating to foreign countries were required to be domiciled with an authorized bank was increased from C F AF 125,000 to C F AF 500,000. May 25. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 75,000 a person a trip for two trips a year to C F AF 100,000 a person a trip for two trips a year. August 13. L im i ts were imposed on authorized banks' net overall positions in foreign currencies and in francs vis-a-vis foreign countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U P P ER V O L TA August 30. Fo l low ing the introduction of a dual exchange market in France, similar dual market arrangements were introduced in Upper V o l t a. The exchange rate for the F rench franc remained fixed at C F AF 1 = F 0.02, and the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market remained at C F AF 277.710 = US $ 1. The system of nonresident accounts was reorganized. Foreign Accounts in Francs henceforth were related to the official exchange market only, and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs were introduced, which were related to the financial franc market. B C E AO banknotes mailed to the B C E AO by foreign correspondents of authorized banks hence­ forth could be credited only to F inanc ial Accounts in Francs. September 10. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased to C F AF 175,000 a person a trip, with no l im i ta t ion on the number of trips a year. The max imum business travel allocation that authorized banks could grant was increased from the equivalent of C F AF 200,000 a trip to C F AF 400,000 a trip. September 10. The exchange allocations for family remittances, transfers to students abroad, dowries, and emigrants' transfers were increased. September 10. The forward cover facilities for imports were improved. December 9. The lending of francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years was freely permitted. 10. W i th certain exceptions, Foreign Accounts in Francs and F inanc ial Accounts in Francs could only be debited for payments in francs to resi­ dents, and no longer for purchases of foreign exchange. (This measure was revoked on December 24.) December 24. The exchange rate for the F rench franc was maintained at C F AF 1 = F 0.02. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar in the official exchange market became C F AF 255.785 = U S $ 1. The dual exchange market arrangements were maintained. December 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY* Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the F u n d. H ow­ ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange trans­ actions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the monetary authorities.1 The Central Bank sets official buying and selling rates in this market. Other exchange transactions take place in an interbank free market. In practice, the exchange rates in the two markets are virtually identical; the Central Bank sup­ plies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for current transactions, and the proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered to the monetary authori­ ties while those from nontraditional exports must be sold to authorized banks. The commercial banks are not permitted to exceed specified overbought positions and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank. On December 31, 1971, the official buying and selling rates were Ur$248 and U r$250 per US $ 1, respectively. Most exchange transactions take place at different effective exchange rates resulting from the application of an exchange premium or exchange commission to the official buying or selling rate. On December 31, 1971, the effective rates for traditional exports ( inc lud­ ing wool and meat) ranged between Ur$248 and Ur$368 per U S $ 1; the effective rate for a ll nontradi­ tional exports was Ur$368 per U S $ 1; the rates for imports were U r$250 per US$1 for petroleum, U r$500 for books and periodicals, and U r$370 for a ll other commodities; for other payments, effective rates included the fo l low ing: Ur$368 per US$1 for amortiza­ tion and interest on private loans; U r$370 per US$1 for freight; U r$500 per US$1 for travel expenses (other than fares) in countries other than Argentina, B r a z i l, and Paraguay, family remittances, royalties, dividends, commissions, insurance, technical assistance, and con­ sular fees; and U r$600 per US$1 for passages (travel tickets). In addition, certain export proceeds are subject to retention taxes (detracciones or retenciones) and certain imports are subject to special deposits (consignaciones) and surcharges (recargos), a ll of which give rise to various other effective buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase exchange arising from transactions other than the above and other than certain other specified transactions at the rate of U r$500 per US$1 minus a fixed commis- * With effect from March 2, 1972 the exchange rate structure was simplified. A dual exchange rate system was introduced, with a com­ mercial rate (initially fixed at Ur$495 buying, and Ur$500 selling, per US$1) and a freely fluctuating financial rate (initially about Ur$7()0 per US$1). The commercial rate would be adjusted from time to time. iOn March 1, 1967, a new Central Bank was established but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 458 sion of U r$3 per U S $ 1. Proceeds from invisibles received in Argentine pesos and B raz i l ian cruzeiros are bought and sold through the banking system at a fluctuating exchange rate. A tax of 2/io of 1 per cent is payable on a ll funds received from abroad. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author­ ized banks, banking houses, and the monetary authori­ ties. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the prepayments and advance deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree­ ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the L A F TA multilateral clearing system; these countries are Argentina, Ch i l e, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, Peru, and Venezuela. Settlements w i th other countries are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible cur­ rencies. Imports and Import Payments A ll imports are subject to registration pr ior to placing orders abroad. There are certain import proh i­ bitions and most commodities are subject to surcharges, prepayments, and /or prescribed terms of payment. These special requirements often are different for imports of L A F TA or ig in and imports of other or ig in. Imports are classified into eight categories. Goods in one category are not subject to surcharge (recargo). Many imports require prepayments {consignaciones) in Uruguayan pesos of a certain percentage of the c.i.f. value; the prepayment must be lodged with the mone­ tary authorities at the time of registration and is refundable on application after six months. Imports by public sector agencies are exempt, as are, inter alia, imports financed with loans from international agencies or foreign governments at maturities of over ten years. An advance deposit of 200 per cent of the aforo c.i.f. value is required in principal on imports of vehicles equipped with foreign-made tires or tubes of types also produced in Uruguay, but the requirement is not enforced. As at the end of 1971, imports subject to a surcharge of 50 per cent or more were prohibited, as were certain imports of capital goods. V i r tua l ly a ll imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties ranging from 1.5 per cent to 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clearance; the 18 per cent rate introduced by a Decree of December 21, 1967 is not applied when the goods originate in G A TT ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or L A F TA countries. A ll imports valued at over US$1 .82 are subject to consular charges of 1 per cent on the peso amount resulting from conversion of the f.o.b. value at a rate of U r$55 per U S $ 1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of U r $l = US$2 .10 (at a rate of U r $l = US$1 for private imports of petroleum and petroleum pro­ ducts, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead, and U r $l = US$0 .50 for official imports of the same commodities). Prepayments and surcharges in most cases are calcu­ lated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U . S. dollars per k i logram. The application of surcharges may differ according to whether imports are or are not transported in Uruguayan ships or in ships owned by foreign lines that participate in line conferences in which Uruguay also takes part. In 1971 the authorities followed a policy of pro­ hibiting the sale of foreign exchange for imports not having certain m in imum terms of financing. F or certain imports meeting these financing requirements, an exchange rate guarantee was given subject to the lodging of a peso deposit. In the implementation of the arrange­ ments certain payments arrears arise. Payments for Invisibles There are basic exchange allowances for certain current invisibles. The exchange allocation for travel to Argentina, B r a z i l, and Paraguay is $a 1,500 and C r$ 1,000; that for tourist travel to other countries is equivalent to the price of an economy-class ticket, subject to a l im it of US$900 a person a tr ip. Pur­ chases of exchange for travel can only be made once every 30 days. Exchange for family remittances is limited to the equivalent of US$50 a month for each recipient and remittor. Transportation companies may convert the peso proceeds from the sale of passages at an effective exchange rate of U r$600 per US$1 (which includes a 20 per cent exchange t ax ). Pay­ ments for a ll other invisibles may in principle be made freely through the banking system, provided that in the case of contractual payments the relevant foreign obligation has been registered with the Central Bank; private sector payments in respect of profits, dividends, rents, and certain other invisibles must be registered in advance at the beginning of the semester in which they are to be made and must be authorized by accept­ ance of the registration. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes, but except for travel to countries with which Uruguay maintains reciprocal credit agreements, only 10 per cent of the travel allocations may be taken out in the form of foreign banknotes and 40 per cent in travelers checks. U R U G U AY Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are with­ held by the monetary authorities on the basis of the aforo value of the commodity concerned. The tax is stipulated in pesos per unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of meat the stipulated maximum is 25 per cent while for wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the aforo value. The actual percentages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of traditional exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the monetary authorities not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds from exports of nontra- ditional products must be surrendered within 60 days if the sale is on a cash basis or within 210 days if the sale is made on credit. F or most exports, including wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum sur­ render prices or aforos) expressed in U. S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. Subsidies (reintegros) of up to 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain nontradi- tional exports. Exports of certain types of beef dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat, sorghum, corn and sunflower seeds are from time to time per­ mitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold to the banking system. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward capital transfers by either residents or non­ residents may be made freely through the banking system. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization; those of resident-owned capital are restricted. A ll obligations in excess of US$1 ,000 that are contracted abroad by the private sector must be declared within 30 days of the date of the contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Uruguay or abroad; any purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, however, must be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings. Imports and exports of gold by or on behalf of the monetary authorities or authorized industrial and professional users are settled at the official buying and selling rates. Changes during 1971 January 1. Central Bank C i r cu l ar N o. 222 of Decem­ ber 31, 1970 reduced the limits on sales of foreign 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U R U G U AY exchange for travel by 50 per cent. The new limits were US$50 a person for each trip to B r a z il and Argentina; the equivalent of the fare for travel to Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Mex ico, Peru, and Venezuela, with up to 10 per cent granted in foreign currency and the balance in drafts payable through the reciprocal credit agreement w i th the country concerned; the equivalent of the fare for travel to other countries, w i th up to 10 per cent avail­ able in foreign currency, up to 40 per cent in travelers checks, and the balance to be taken up in nontransfer­ able drafts drawn in the passenger's name; and the equivalent of 30 per cent of the fare for ship cruises, with up to 10 per cent available in foreign currency and the balance in travelers checks. Purchases of exchange for travel could only be made once every 30 days. (yerba January 1. Cen tral Bank C i rcu lar N o. 223 of December 31, 1970 established new prepayments (con­ signaciones) for imports during the period January 1- June 30, 1971, modifying in certain respects the provisions established by C i rcu lar N o. 204 of Septem- tember 17, 1970. In the first half of 1971, imports free of prepayments wou ld in principle be limited to 35 per cent of 1970 import registrations. F or imports free of surcharge, or subject to a surcharge of 5 per cent, 15 per cent, or 35 per cent, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from L A F TA countries) was applied on any imports in excess of 35 per cent of the value of total import declarations presented by each importer during 1970; the value of import declarations was to comprise a ll imports effected in the base period, whether w i th in the quota free of prepayments or w i th prepayments, excluding only the value of tea mate). F or imports subject to surcharges of 65 per cent or 95 per cent, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for L A F TA countries) was required on the value of imports in excess of 35 per cent of the value of total 1970 import declarations. F or imports subject to sur­ charges of 155 per cent or more, the prepayment required was 400 per cent (280 per cent for L A F TA countries) on imports in excess of 35 per cent of declarations in the same base period. Goods in the first of these categories, when imported by industrial importers for their own use, obtained a 20 per cent reduction in the prepayment applied. Imports of capital goods would be subject to a dif­ ferent prepayment schedule, depending on the length of maturity of the financing obtained. Au thor ized imports of specified capital goods financed at more than three years' maturity were exempt from prepayments. Those financed at less than three years were subject to prepay­ ments of 50-150 per cent (35-105 per cent on imports from L A F TA countries). Cap i tal goods included in the special list but not authorized by the Cen tral Bank were subject to prepayments of 225 per cent (155 per cent on imports from L A F TA countries). Moreover, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 for each importer a calendar quarter were exempt from prepayments. 460 Imports for which no foreign exchange transfer was involved, those w i th tax and customs duty exemptions, and those financed with loans of ten years' maturity or more from international agencies or foreign govern­ ments were exempt. A l so exempt were imports of capital goods when deemed necessary for economic development, imports of automotive kits authorized by the Automotive Commission, imports of specified drugs, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals exempt from surcharges or subject to 5 per cent or 15 per cent surcharges (when deemed necessary), and imports of jute fabrics. The exemption was also applied to imports from L A F TA countries of goods covered by Uruguay's complimentarity (acuerdos de complementacion) agreements. F in a l ly, the exemption for pub l ic sector imports henceforth was limited to those that had obtained the pr ior approval of the Cen tral Bank; previously, this exemption was automatic. January 26. Central Bank C i rcu lar N o. 231 estab­ lished that henceforth foreign exchange allocations to importers would be made only upon presentation of both shipping documents and an application for cus­ toms clearance of the goods endorsed by the bank concerned (or upon presentation of an application for clearance only for imports from neighboring countries). Moreover, importers were required to present a sworn declaration that foreign exchange had not been previ­ ously obtained for the same transaction. The previous regulations contained in C i rcu lar N o. 122 of M a r ch 12, 1969 had established that foreign exchange alloca­ tions to importers would be made automatically against presentation of the import declaration (denuncia de importacion). February March 1. N ew rates of retention of U r$80 for each ten kilograms were fixed for the period ending on February 26 on proceeds of exports not exceeding 4 m i l l ion kilograms of dry sheepskins, w i th fu ll or three-quarter length woo l; and of exports not exceeding 1.5 m i l l ion kilograms of wool waste from the local textile industry. February 25. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria was terminated. 1. Imports transported by national flagships and ships incorporated in the national register were exempted by decree from the 5 per cent across-the- board increase in surcharges established in October 1970. However, merchandise covered by freight agree­ ments between national and foreign shipping companies, but carried in ships of companies not participating in such an agreement, remained subject to the 5 per cent surcharge and also had to pay an additional 5 per cent surcharge. The latter measure was in force only un t il June 29, 1971 but the exemption was extended un t il June 30, 1972. 19. A ll family remittances were channeled through the Bank of the Republic. On ly spouses, and first- or second-degree relatives with permanent resi­ dence abroad could receive such remittances and these March ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution were restricted to US$50 a month for each beneficiary or remittor. (C i rcu lar N o. 239.) March 25. Foreign exchange for residents' travel to Argen t ina was only granted in the form of a payment order on the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic under the reciprocal credit agreement. (C i rcu lar N o. 241.) The measure was suspended the next day. April 20. Sales of foreign exchange were suspended un t il further notice, except for travel and fares and for the import of perishable goods. (C i rcu lar N o. 246.) April 27. By virtue of C i rcu lar N o. 247, commis­ sions payable to the Central Bank and additional to the official exchange rate of U r$250 per US$1 were levied on sales of exchange as follows ( in pesos per U . S. d o l l a r ): travel allocations, U r$100; transporta­ tion tickets and freight, U r$100; family remittances, U r $ 7 5; dividends, profits, and royalties, U r$100; com­ missions for personal services, U r$100; insurance and reinsurance, head office expenses, and technical assist­ ance services, U r$100; consular fees and customs serv­ ices and books, U r$50; and scholarships, U r $ 7 5. No commission was imposed on the purchase of foreign exchange for amortization, interest, and other fees payable abroad, or on exchange transactions serving to cover the difference between the actual and the aforo value of exports. April 27. C i rcu lar N o. 248 provided that foreign exchange for imports would be made available only if these were payable in 180 days or more. An excep­ tion was made for imports of capital goods and for imports that could not be obtained on the above terms. Importers were given an exchange rate guarantee for the rate of U r$250 per US$1 if they deposited the peso equivalent of the foreign exchange within 60 days of the date of import clearance. May 7. A 90-day embargo was placed on imports of some capital goods by Decree N o. 246 /971. Imports for which licenses had already been obtained were not affected, nor were imports deemed essential or imports from L A F TA countries. May 10. F or imports approved and paid for by the banking system, the supply of foreign exchange by the Central Bank at the rate of U r$250 per US$1 became subject to the deposit before M ay 21 of the peso equivalent for payments to be made in M a y. F or pay­ ments after M a y, the peso deposit had to be made 30 days before the date of maturity. (C i rcu lar N o. 252.) May 13. Sales of foreign exchange by banks and exchange houses were authorized subject to the fo l­ lowing commissions ( in pesos per U. S. d o l l a r ): con­ sular charges, books, and publications, U r$50; scholarships, U r $ 7 5; and royalties, head office expenses, technical services and assistance, salaries, sale of prop­ erty, rents, and certain other payments, U r$100. The following sales of foreign exchange were exempted from commission: amortization, interest, and commis­ sions on foreign and local banks' loans in connection U R U G U AY with the financing of imports; freight; and drugs (C i r­ cular N o. 253.) May 13. C i rcu lar N o. 254 extended the application of C i rcu lar N o. 248 to import declarations made before A p r il 27, with the following exceptions: imports under irrevocable documentary credit, goods shipped before M ay 13, and imports of capital goods. May 20. By Decree N o. 285 /971, the import sur­ charges on goods not originating in L A F TA countries were increased from 35, 65, 95, 155, or 225 per cent to 50, 80, 110, 170, or 250 per cent. June 1. C i rcu lar N o. 259 extended the period within which deposits under C i rcu lar N o. 252 had to be made. Import deposits required for transactions made before June 15 became subject to a commission of U r$10 per U S $ 1; deposits made between June 15 and June 30 would be subject to a commission of U r$20 per US $ 1. June 2, C i rcu lar N o. 260 established a system under which the importer of goods shipped before M ay 13, 1971 would be able to benefit from the official exchange rate of U r$250 per US $ 1, provided that special financ­ ing terms could be obtained from the supplier, as set out below: (1) Goods shipped against bills sent for collection or with shipping documents sent direct to the importer: In these cases payment could be made at sight or within a specified period of time. F or payment at sight the importer had to deposit the equivalent in local currency with the Central Bank not later than 10 days after June 30, 1971. If the goods were shipped against a b i ll of exchange due for payment during August or later, the importer had to deposit the equivalent in local currency not later than 15 days before the bill's expiration date. The Central Bank would de­ liver foreign exchange cover immediately to enable the importer to comply with the terms of the import contract. (2) Imports financed under payment terms of 90 days: Importers were required to deposit within a period of 45 days after June 30 the local currency equivalent of bills due or falling due up to July 31. The Central Bank would deliver foreign exchange cover 90 days after June 30, 1971. F or commitments due on or after August 1, 1971, the equivalent in local cur­ rency had to be deposited not later than 45 days after the expiration date of the b i l l. Foreign exchange cover would be supplied by the Central Bank 90 days after the expiration date of the b i l l. (3) Imports financed under payment terms of 120, 180, 270, and 360 days: F or these, the Central Bank would provide foreign exchange cover 120, 180, 270, or 360 days after the expiration dates of the respec­ tive bills. The local currency deposits had to be made w i th in specified periods depending on the financing terms selected. June 18. C i rcu lar N o. 261 authorized sales of for­ eign exchange for profits and dividends, movie royalties, amortization of foreign loans and interest and com- 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U R U G U AY missions on such loans, amortization of loans from local banks and interest and commissions on such loans, reimbursement of investments, and artists' and authors' fees. A commission of U r$100 per US$1 was to be charged on sales for these purposes. A ll other permitted transactions were authorized free of commis­ sion. F or payments due on or before June 30, 1971, a period of 90 days was prescribed for the deposit of the peso equivalent in the Cen tral Bank. June 28. C i rcu lar N o. 263 made those goods whose surcharges had been modified on M ay 20 or June 4, 1971 subject to the consignation requirements pre­ scribed by C i rcu lar N o. 223. June 28. C i rcu lar N o. 264 exempted imports valued at US$1,000 or less and imports under temporary admission from the A p r il 27 requirement of 180 days' credit terms. June 28. Travelers were required to pay a commis­ sion of U r$100 per US$1 on the fu ll value of the fares and of the amount of foreign exchange purchased. (C i rcu lar N o. 265.) June 30. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel to Argentina and B raz il was increased to US$ 100 a person for the month of July, subject to a com­ mission of U r$120 per US $ 1. Exchange was made avail­ able only in B raz i l ian cruzeiros and Argentine pesos. (C i rcu lar N o. 267.) July 1. The Central Bank authorized the sale of foreign exchange up to US$100 for travel to Argentina and B raz il when the round-trip fare cost Ur$3 ,000 or more. (C i rcu lar N o. 270.) July 14. C i rcu lar N o. 275 extended to July 26 the period for making the peso deposits required to obtain foreign exchange for payments on sight under C i rcu lar N o. 260. (This period was further extended by C i r­ cular N o. 282 to August 30, 1971.) July 14. Sales of exchange to cover differences between the actual and the aforo value of exports of meat and meat products authorized on or after M ay 24, 1971 were suspended. (C i rcu lar N o. 276.) July 21. C i rcu lar N o. 281 provided for new rates Imports of goods exempt from sur­ charge or subject to a surcharge of up to 150 per cent were exempt from consignation if during the six-month period July 1-December 31, 1971 they did not exceed 30 per cent (80 per cent during the year 1971 for L A F TA countries) of the same imports made by each importer during 1970. Apa rt from certain specified exemptions, imports in excess of 30 per cent became subject to consignaciones at the following rates: when the surcharge did not exceed 50 per cent, the consignation was 150 per cent (105 per cent for L A F TA countries); if the surcharge was between 75 per cent and 110 per cent, the con­ signation was 300 per cent (210 per cent for L A F TA countries); when the surcharge was 150 per cent or more, the consignation was 400 per cent (280 per cent for L A F TA countries). Industrialists importing goods of consignaciones. 4 62 consignation. for their own industries were entitled to a 20 per cent rebate on the amount of the consignation for goods subject to recargos not in excess of 50 per cent. F or imports of capital goods, the amount of the consignation was based on the time allowed for pay­ ment: if payment in foreign exchange was required within one year the consignation was 150 per cent (105 per cent for L A F TA countries); for payment between one and two years, 100 per cent (70 per cent for L A F TA countries); between two and three years, 50 per cent (35 per cent for L A F TA countries); and for payment in three years or more, no These consignaciones were not required when imports of capital goods by an individual importer did not exceed US$10,000 for each calendar quarter. Specified capital goods were subject to higher consignaciones of 225 per cent (155 per cent for L A F TA countries). July 27. C i rcu lar N o. 284 exempted sales of foreign exchange for the repayment of loans to local banks and for interest and commission on such loans from the commission of U r$100 per US$1 whenever these loans resulted from the prefinancing of exports payable through reciprocal credit agreements with L A F TA countries. July 28. C ircu lars No s. 285 and 286 established within the Central Bank a special rediscount facility for nontraditional exports. July 29. C i rcu lar N o. 287 authorized the purchase of 50 per cent of the exchange proceeds from non- traditional exports at the rate of U r$370 per U S $ 1. Such exchange could be sold for tourism, services, transfers, insurance, sales to local banks, amortization of loans, etc., subject to the additional commission charges of up to U r$3 per US$1 prescribed previously. August 2. C i rcu lar N o. 288 increased exchange allocations for travel to Argentina and B raz il to US$100 a person a trip. F or travel to other destinations, the limit was raised to the price of an economy-class ticket, subject to a maximum of US$900. August 2. C i rcu lar N o. 289 limited sales of exchange for travel to 70 per cent of the value of fares settled in Uruguay. Transport companies could purchase for­ eign exchange for 70 per cent of their ticket sales by depositing the peso equivalent within 60 days of the sale of each ticket, at the official rate plus a commis­ sion of U r$100 per U S $ 1. The Central Bank would make exchange available 60 days after the date of deposit. August 3, Decree N o. 482 /971 extended the ban on imports of capital goods, which was to have ended on August 6, for another 60 days. The list of capital goods subject to this ban was amended. August 9. C i rcu lar N o. 290 increased the commis­ sion on foreign exchange sold for travel tickets to U r$120 per US $ 1. August 10. C i rcu lar N o. 291 exempted sales of for­ eign exchange for payment of insurance premiums on imports and exports from commission charges. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 12. C i rcu lar N o. 293 permitted banks and exchange houses to purchase specified treasury bonds denominated in U. S. dollars with foreign exchange acquired under the provisions of C ircu lars No s. 267 and 287. August 12. C i rcu lar N o. 294 extended to Septem­ ber 30, 1971 the period for payment of the peso deposits required by the "financing at 90 days" option of C i rcu lar N o. 260. August 13. C i rcu lar N o. 295 provided that foreign exchange for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$10 ,000 would be sold only if these were payable over a minimum period of three years. Foreign exchange for 20 per cent of the value would be made available within 180 days of the date of the order. Commerc ial importers of capital goods could, w i th in 180 days of the import registration, purchase the re­ maining amount of foreign exchange to fully cover the value of the imports. Th is exchange had to be deposited in an account at the Central Bank and would be made available to the importer's bank as the pay­ ments fell due. August 15. The exchange market was closed. It reopened on August 23. August 23. The official exchange rate was maintained unchanged at U r$250 per U S $ 1. August 23. C i rcu lar N o. 299 exempted from the commission of U r$120 per US$1 on tickets for for­ eign travel any services other than board, lodging, etc., to be received outside the country. August 23. Banks receiving proceeds from exports of construction materials were required to deposit the exchange in specified accounts at the Bank of the Repub l ic. (C i rcu lar N o. 300.) August 23. C i rcu lar N o. 301 extended un t il September 18 the term allowed for making the peso deposits re­ quired under C i rcu lar N o. 261. A commission of U r$20 per US$1 was levied on deposits made after August 3. August 26. Consular fees collected in Uruguay by foreign consulates could be remitted abroad without previous Central Bank authorization. The commission charged on sales of foreign exchange for such remit­ tances was increased from U r$50 per US$1 to U r$120 per U S $ 1. (Circular N o. 302.) September 1. A decree raised certain surcharges on imports from countries outside L A F TA from 15 per cent to 25 per cent, and from 5 per cent to 15 per cent. September 2. Remittances by transportation com­ panies to L A F TA countries having reciprocal credit arrangements with Uruguay could be made only through the accounts held by the Central Bank under these arrangements. (C i rcu lar N o. 306.) September 9. C i rcu lar N o. 307 closed the exchange houses until further notice. September 10. C i r cu l ar N o. 308 reduced the period for the peso deposit for imports under C i rcu lar N o. 248 from 60 days to 30 days. September 21. Decree N o. 599/971 extended the U R U G U AY import ban for capital goods to the end of 1971. Mach inery for agriculture, the meat-packing industry, and certain other industries, however, became exempt. September 22. Banks could purchase 100 per cent of the exchange proceeds of nontraditional exports instead of 50 per cent as previously. F if ty per cent of proceeds from authorized wool exports could hence­ forth be surrendered at the official exchange rate plus a premium of U r$120 per U S $ 1; aforo prices for wool exports were reduced. (C i rcu lar N o. 311.) September 28. C i rcu lar N o. 313 allowed sales of foreign exchange to settle sales commissions abroad up to 2 per cent of the f.o.b. value on traditional exports and up to 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value on nontradi­ tional exports. October 1. C i rcu lar N o. 315 granted exporters of greasy and washed wool and of processed hides an exchange premium of U r$120 per US$1 on 50 per cent of their export proceeds. Exporters of wool tops and of processed wool received a premium of U r$120 per US$1 on their fu ll export proceeds. October 1. C i rcu lar N o. 316 made prepayments received for nontraditional exports subject to the regu­ lations of C i rcu lar N o. 311 w i th regard to foreign exchange. October 11. A one-day bank holiday was declared. October 15. Central Bank Communication N o. 71 /48 authorized the delivery of exchange to meet obligations arising from deposits made under C i rcu lar N o. 260. October 15. C i rcu lar N o. 318 differentiated the exchange commissions per U. S. dollar payable for imports of books and periodicals; the new commissions were U r $ 50 per US$1 for books other than textbooks or publications of international organizations (these being exempt) and U r$120 per US$1 for periodicals. Importers of books must w i th in 60 days of customs clearance deposit in the Central Bank the peso equiva­ lent of the foreign exchange required. F or amounts of up to US$3,000 a transaction foreign exchange would be made available immediately; exchange for payments in excess of US$3,000 would be made available in six equal and consecutive monthly installments. October 18. C i rcu lar N o. 320 granted exporters of mutton an exchange premium of U r$120 per US$1 on 50 per cent of their export proceeds (for contracts registered after October 15). October 25. Circulars No s. 322 and 323 granted exporters of sheepskins an exchange premium of U r$120 per US$1 on 50 per cent of the proceeds. Exporters of wool received an exchange premium of U r$120 per US$1 on the full exchange proceeds. November 1. C i rcu lar N o. 325 required a ll advance export financing operations to be channeled through the Central Bank. November 4. The rates of consignaciones required under C i rcu lar N o. 281 were tripled and extended to additional categories of goods. S im i lar ly, for imports of 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U R U G U AY November capital goods the rates of consignaciones based on the financing period were tripled. (C i rcu lar N o. 326.) November 9. Decree N o. 733/971 required private and public enterprises, public sector agencies, govern­ ment departments, and regional and local authorities to inform the Central Bank within 30 days in detail of their foreign exchange requirements for imports and other purposes for 1972. The exchange allocations they would receive in 1972 would be based on their foreign payments made in the previous three years. November 12. C i rcu lar N o. 327 authorized banks to deal in Argentine pesos and Braz i l ian cruzeiros at market rates. L im i ts for sales of these currencies for travel to Argentina, B raz i l, and Paraguay were raised from US$100 a person a trip to $a 1,500 or C r$ 1,000 a person a trip. 15. C i rcu lar N o. 330 exempted some capital goods from the consignation requirements when imported by the user. The exemption would be effective until the end of the year. November 30. W i th the exception of dealings with Argentine pesos and B raz i l ian cruzeiros, a ll exchange transactions were suspended. They were resumed on December 10. December 6. The Bank of the Republic no longer authorized registration of imports without the payment of an additional surcharge of 20 per cent for goods hitherto not subject to surcharges or subject to sur­ charges of up to 25 per cent. Goods subject to a sur­ charge of more than 25 per cent became subject to an additional surcharge of an amount equivalent to the original surcharge. (Decree N o. 800/971.) December 6. Decree N o. 803/971 raised a ll sur­ charges of 50 per cent or more to 300 per cent. December 6. Decree N o. 803/971 extended the ban on imports of capital goods until M a r ch 31, 1972. December 6. Decree N o. 805/971 prohibited banks and banking houses from selling exchange for travel without an authorization from the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. December 9. A new multiple exchange rate structure came into effect. Export proceeds from meat and meat by-products were sold at the rate of Ur$248 per US$1 plus a premium of U r$120 per US $ 1. (C i rcu lar N o. 335.) Proceeds from nontraditional exports were sold at the rate of U r$250 per US$1 plus a premium of Ur$120 per US $ 1. (C i rcu lar N o. 336.) Banks were authorized to purchase foreign exchange proceeds from exports not subject to a special exchange rate, invisibles, and capital at U r$500 per U S $ 1; Argentine pesos and Braz i l ian cruzeiros, however, continued to be sold and bought at free market rates. (C i rcu lar N o. 337.) Sales of foreign exchange for most invisibles took place at an effective rate of Ur$500 per US$1 as a result of the application of a consignation of Ur$250 per US$1 to the official exchange rate. Invisibles previously exempt from the payment of a commission on the sale of exchange became subject to a commission of 464 U r$120 per US $ 1, resulting in an effective rate of U r$370 per U S $ 1. (C i rcu lar N o. 338.) Sales of exchange for imports of goods subject to surcharges of less than 50 per cent were made at the effective rate of U r$370 per US$1 as a result of payment of a com­ mission of U r$120 per U S $ 1. (C i rcu lar N o. 339.) December 9. Imports subject prior to December 6 to surcharges of 50 per cent or more were temporarily banned. (Circular N o. 339.) Imports already declared but not yet cleared through customs became subject to surcharges, as follows: imports originally authorized without a surcharge or with a maximum surcharge of 25 per cent required an additional surcharge of 20 per cent; imports originally authorized with a surcharge of over 25 per cent required an additional surcharge equivalent to the amount of the original surcharge, but not to exceed 250 per cent. These additional surcharges were not applied to salt, raw sugar, raw coffee, crude o i l, coa l, and certain capital goods considered essential for the development of export industries. Imports of capital goods from L A F TA member countries made without foreign exchange cover, as well as imports for re-export, also were exempt. December 10. Decree N o. 830/971 established a 20 per cent surcharge on the value of tickets for foreign travel. December 17. C i rcu lar N o. 340 revised the treatment of the exchange proceeds from wool exports. When the actual value exceeded the aforo value, the exporter could use the excess to pay the Central Bank the differ­ ence between the aforo value and the actual value of other wool exports, or to pay abroad his commissions and other expenses related to the wool exports. Exchange not used for either purpose had to be deposited with the banking system to the exporter's account or had to be sold at the rate stipulated in C i rcu lar N o. 337. December 27. C i rcu lar N o. 343 extended the exchange rate of Ur$248 per US$1 plus a premium of U r$120 per US$1 to proceeds from exports of linseed o i l, linseed flour, and linseed expellers. December 29. C i rcu lar N o. 344 established that the level of imports exempt from pr ior deposit require­ ments to be authorized during the first quarter of 1972 could not exceed 58 per cent of the same imports made during the second half of 1971. Imports of goods from L A F TA countries covered by industrial complementarity agreements were exempt from consignation up to 25 per cent of the amount of the same goods that could be imported without consig­ nation under C i r cu l ar N o. 281. The period of applica­ rates established in C i rcu lar N o. 326 was extended through the first quarter of 1972. A 20 per cent rebate on consignaciones for goods imported for industrial use was granted, as in C i rcu lar N o. 281. Approved imports of capital goods were exempted from consignaciones. Other imports of capital tion of the consignation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution signation goods were subject to a consignation of 465 per cent. The c ircu lar provided for some exemptions from con­ requirements. Pub l ic sector imports were exempt if approved by the Central Bank; otherwise they were subject to the same rates of consignation as non­ capital goods. The prohibition of imports of goods subject pr ior to December 6 to surcharges of 50 per cent or more, as established in C i rcu lar N o. 339, was repealed with effect from January 1, 1972. December 30. C i rcu lar N o. 347 granted a premium of U r$120 per US$1 on 50 per cent of the proceeds from exports of blousse wool and other wool by-products under contracts registered on or after December 30. U R U G U AY 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bo l ivar. No transactions take place at the par value. Exchange transactions take place at the fo l­ lowing rates.1 The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting com­ panies at the rate of Bs 4.30 per U S $ 1. A ny proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee that are offered for sale to the Central Bank must be purchased by it at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1. The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks (for sales to the public only) at Bs 4.385 per U S $ 1 .2 The commercial banks purchase foreign exchange from the public at rates close to Bs 4.38 per US $ 1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.40 per US$1 for a ll transactions; foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained from the Central Bank. Some foreign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buying and selling rates usually are slightly below Bs 4.40 per US$ 1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U. S. dollars at Bs 4.37 and resells at Bs 4.40 after 90 or 180 days. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the M in is t ry of Development or the M in is t ry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commod­ ity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Government and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to imports of wheat for human consumption and to cer­ tain exports of coffee and cacao. Prescription of Currency Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, the Dom in ican Republic, Mex ico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives must not be received through these accounts. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or 1 The exchange rates given (except those for the Central Bank's swap transactions) are those applicable to sight drafts on New York. 2 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, at the Bs 4.40 rate, for travel expenses and personal remit­ tances. 466 reserved for the Government; these include fully assem­ bled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, citrus fruit, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, natural pearls, and matches. In addition, many other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions applicable irrespective of origin are main­ tained on these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for a ll countries except Rhodesia and South A f r i c a. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity imported (contingentamiento). Imports of wheat for human consumption receive a subsidy of 25.55 per cent of the f.o.b. value, calculated at Bs 4.40 per US$1; they require an import license, and the Central Bank's Import Subsidy Office establishes eligibility for the subsidy. A ll other commodities are free from import licensing. Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made from commercial banks or exchange houses. Resident and nonresident travelers must on departure pay a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, foreign tourists, Vene­ zuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of inter­ national organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodi­ ties, except petroleum. Most export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Development, but those for coffee and cacao are granted by the M in i s t ry of Agr icu l ture and Livestock. Exports of products containing subsidized imported wheat are subject to special arrangements to ensure that the sub­ sidy received is repaid. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. The petroleum and i ron ore exporting com­ panies must surrender to the Central Bank export pro­ ceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.30 per U S $ 1. Otherwise, there are no surrender requirements for export proceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may (but need not) sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per U S $ 1; they may receive an export subsidy calculated to pre­ vent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Vene­ zuelan ports from falling below specified m in imum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amounts regardless of external prices for these prod­ ucts. E l ig ib i l i ty for this subsidy is maintained also if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. The m in i­ mum prices guaranteed by the Government range from Bs 175.00 to Bs 185.44 a quintal for coffee, and are Bs 121 or Bs 150 a quintal for cacao. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. A ll exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are pro­ hibited, as are exports of petroleum and military equipment to mainland Ch ina and No r th Ko r e a. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposa­ ble. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, w i th the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. The importation of Venezuelan gold coins is reserved for the Cen tral Bank. Capital A ll capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. The Cen tral Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resi­ dent or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law of December 30, 1970 authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. Th is law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may ho ld, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur­ poses. The Cen tral Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated between licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commerc ial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the M in i s t ry of Finance and in certain cases also from the M in i s t ry of Development, while exports are licensed by the M in i s t ry of Finance only. The law prescribes a V E N E Z U E LA license for a ll imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the M in i s t ry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; a ll other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. A ll imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consu­ lar duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3Vi per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1971 In addition to the measures specified below, a num­ ber of commodities were added to the list of goods that require an individual import license. January 1. In application of the General Banking L aw of December 30, 1970, the reserve requirements were eased for domestic commercial banks and tight­ ened for foreign commercial banks operating in Vene­ zuela. Foreign banks were required within six months either to become domestic banks or to declare their intention to do so, if they wished to be treated as domestic banks after June 30, 1971. F r om that date, foreign banks would no longer be able to receive sav­ ings deposits or deposits from public agencies, issue savings bonds or negotiable certificates of deposit, sell foreign exchange acquired from the Central Bank, or increase their capital or the number of their offices. No foreign banks that had not yet established a branch in Venezuela could be authorized to establish one in the future. July 29. To stimulate industrial exports, export licensing requirements were abolished for many manu­ factured, semimanufactured, or processed commodities. July 31. The Hydrocarbons Reversion Law was enacted. It provided that a ll o il concessions wou ld revert without compensation to the State upon their expiration; the residual assets of foreign-owned petro­ leum companies also would at that time revert to the State. August 10. The Central Bank issued regulations enabling the issuance of negotiable certificates of deposit. The m in imum denomination was set at Bs 50,000 and the m in imum maturity at 180 days. August 23. The exchange rates for the U. S. dollar were maintained unchanged. August 26. A b i ll was signed into law reserving the exploitation of natural gas resources to the State. December 21. A ll exchange rates were appreciated in terms of the U. S. dollar by 10 points, from Bs 4.40 to Bs 4.30, from about Bs 4.48 to about Bs 4.38, from Bs 4.485 to Bs 4.385, and from Bs 4.50 to Bs 4.40. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution V I E T N AM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established w i th the Fund. The official parity is VN $ 8 0 . 00 per U S $ 1; no sales or purchases of exchange take place at the official rate. There are two exchange markets, both with fixed exchange rates: the official market and the limited parallel market (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Transactions on behalf of Vietnamese and foreign governments for official pur­ poses and transfers to Vietnamese students abroad pass through the official market. The application of a con­ solidation premium or a consolidation tax of VN $ 3 8 . 00 per US$1 to the official rate gives rise to effective exchange rates of VN$117 .20 buying, and VN$118 .80 selling, per US $ 1. The limited parallel exchange market is a three-tier market based on rates of VN $ 2 7 5, VN $ 4 0 0, and VN $ 4 10 per US $ 1. Imports of U . S. origin financed under the Commerc ial Import Program or U. S. P. L. 480 (Title I) are subject to a selling rate of VN$277 .75 per U S $ 1. The same selling rate plus an equalization tax of VN $ 75 per US$1 is applicable to imports of non -U. S. origin under the Commerc ial Import Program, giving rise to an effective selling rate of VN$352 .75 per US $ 1. A selling rate of VN$404 .00 per US$1 is applicable to a ll other imports. Imports of textile piece goods, however, are subject to an equaliza­ tion tax of VN $ 2 00 per U S $ 1; hence, the effective selling rate for these commodities is VN$477 .75, VN$552 .75, or VN$604 .00, depending on origin and financing. A ll payments for invisibles, other than those passing through the official market, as well as any authorized capital transfers, are settled at a selling rate of VN$414 .10 per US $ 1. On the buying side, a ll exchange receipts that must not be sold in the official market are purchased at an effective rate of VN$405 .90 per U S $ 1; these exchange receipts include a ll export proceeds except those from rubber, the effective buying rate for which is VN$401 .841 as a result of a 1 per cent tax on the proceeds. The application of pre-November 1971 equalization taxes (taxes de perequation) to imports financed by the importer (sans devises) gives rise to a piastre cost wh ich may range between VN$284 .75 and VN$754 .00 per US $ 1. Payments and receipts in either exchange market must be effected through the authorized banks. Au tho r­ ized banks are allowed to engage in forward buying or selling of foreign exchange in the domestic or foreign exchange markets only in relation to payments for imports and in specified currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank of V i e t -N am (Directorate-General of Exchange). 468 Most remittances not made through the parallel market must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the author­ ized banks. Imports under the U. S. "Pub l ic A i d" pro­ gram 1 require no license but are subject to special con­ tracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U. S. aid are issued by the M i n­ istry of Economy (Directorate of General Trade) and are countersigned by the Na t ional Bank (Directorate of Fore ign A i d ). Licenses for imports financed with V ie t- Nam's own exchange are issued, when required, by the M in i s t ry of Economy (Directorate of Ex ternal Trade) and are countersigned by the Na t ional Bank (Directorate- General of Exchange). However, for imports of a non­ commercial character, machinery spare parts, and cu l­ tural materials, when valued at US$100 or less, the Na t ional Bank (Directorate-General of Exchange) is authorized to grant foreign exchange, when required. Export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy (Directorate of External T rade ), but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency W i th the exception of import payments under the F rench credit insurance program, a ll settlements must be made and received in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, sub­ ject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts in Free Piastres may be freely credited with the proceeds from the sale of convertible exchange and may be freely debited for most payments to residents. A category of nonresident accounts, Cap i tal Accounts, covers piastres owned by nonresident foreigners that may " it be transferred abroad. Balances in Cap i tal A c. i. . is may be used for investment in certain areas of w onomic activity designated by the M in i s t ry of N a t ioi 1 Economy. The ir use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed from Cap i tal Accounts generally are not cov­ ered by the Investment L aw of 1963 (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Cap i tal Accounts unless the M in i s t ry of Na t ional Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the law. Balances in Cap i tal Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance w i th an annual 1 I.e., imports under the Dollar Project, under part of the AID pro­ gram, under Development Loan Funds, and under Titles II and III of U. S. P .L. 480. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commerc ial Import Program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed w i th funds from the U. S. Agency for International Develop­ ment ( A I D ); (2) imports financed from V ie t -Nam 's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country- financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japanese loans, or F rench export credit. In principle, products imported under the A ID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when A ID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from V ie t-Nam's official exchange reserves. M any imports are prohibited. Except for those commodities also financed by the U. S. A ID programs and prohibited commodities (a temporary prohibition applies to two-, three-, and four- wheeled vehicles, fresh fruits and vegetables, and com­ pletely knocked-down television and radio sets w i th the exception of three specified makes), a ll imports financed with V ie t -Nam 's own exchange are effected through the "Import C red i t" procedure, under which they are exempt from license. A ll other imports require licenses. Some imports are subject to advance deposits. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Such imports, in addition to any applicable advance deposit requirements, are subject to the equalization taxes in force prior to November 16, 1971, which range from V N $7 to VN $ 3 50 per U S $ 1. A ll imports of textile piece goods are subject to an equalization tax of VN $ 2 00 per U S $ 1. Imports from the Khmer Republic are suspended. Import licenses generally are va l id for all noncommu- nist countries except the Khmer Repub l ic; the main exception is that goods financed by U. S. aid must originate in " P D 3 1" countries (the Republic of Ch ina, Cey lon, India, the Republic of Ko rea, Mo rocco, P a k i­ stan, the Philippines, Singapore, Tun is ia) or the Un i ted States. A ll imports financed with V ie t-Nam's own foreign exchange and valued at V N$ 10,000 or over require a letter of credit. In addition to the advance deposit requirements mentioned above, mandatory margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of import letters of credit for most commodities; depending on the goods involved, these deposits are 25, 35, and 50 per cent. They are calculated on the countervalue at the applica­ ble exchange rate of the invoice price. A l though the m in imum margins are set at 25, 35, and 50 per cent, commercial banks are free to apply higher margins according to the standing of the importer and the mar­ ket situation for the commodity concerned. Some essen­ tial commodities are exempt from margin deposit V I E T - N AM requirements; these include flour, m i lk, sugar, newsprint, petroleum products, fertilizers, agricultural implements, and raw materials and industrial equipment imported by end-users. Some imports are subject to a different type of deposit (consignation). Exchange, when granted, is made available at the limited parallel market rates of VN $ 2 75 and VN $ 4 00 per US $ 1. Imports of non -U. S. origin under the C om­ mercial Import Program are subject to an equalization tax of VN $ 75 per US $ 1, giving rise to an effective sell­ ing rate of VN$352 .75 per U S $ 1. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Exchange for govern­ ment transfers and for transfers to Vietnamese students is sold at the rate of VN $ 1 18 per U S $ 1. F or a ll other authorized payments for invisibles, exchange is sold at the limited parallel market rate of VN $ 4 10 per U S $ 1. Students are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of Ch ina or Hong K o ng and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for housing and for extraordinary expenses. Foreign spe­ cialists employed in V i e t -N am may transfer up to 50 per cent of their salary every month, and applications for larger transfers may be approved; they are also entitled to a special allocation for home leave. In principle, foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 70 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, after examination of their accounts and after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit trans­ fers by foreign enterprises established or expanded after 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law; since 1971 there is also a "Foreign Exchange Wo rk ing Cap i tal System" (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). A l though dividends declared in V i e t -N am and accruing to non­ residents may in principle be transferred up to 70 per cent, under a system established in 1971 transfers of profits, dividends, and interest are limited to 20 per cent annually of the registered amount. Each resident authorized to travel abroad is entitled to purchase the following amounts of foreign exchange at the limited parallel market rate of VN $ 4 10 per U S $ 1: travelers to the Khmer Republic and Laos US$30 a day, with a maximum of US$300 a person a trip, and travelers to other countries US$40 a day, with a maximum of US$2,400 a person a trip. V ie t­ namese nationals are required to pay the following exit visa fees: travelers to the Khmer Republic and Laos VN $ 5 , 0 00 a trip, without limitation of duration; travelers to other A s i an countries and Aus tra l ia V N$ 15,000 to V N$ 105,000, depending on duration of the trip; and travelers to European, A f r ican, and Ame r ican countries VN$50 ,000 to VN$140 ,000, de­ pending on duration. If the destination of the traveler includes several countries, the exit visa fees are calcu­ lated on the basis of the farthest country. Ch i ld ren 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution V I E T - N AM under ten years of age pay half of the above fees. The allocations mentioned may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to V N$ 1,000 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, however, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. A ll exports to communist countries, exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured prod­ ucts originally imported into V i e t -N am, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the limited parallel market rate of VN $ 4 10 per U S $ 1. Export proceeds of rubber are subject to a tax of 1 per cent on the f.o.b. value calculated at the limited parallel market rate of exchange. Exporters are allowed to retain in E F AC (Exportations, Fra is Accessoires) accounts 3 per cent of their total export proceeds for the settlement of incidental expenses related to the export transaction. Proceeds from Invisibles The rate of V N $ 1 18 per US$1 is applicable to receipts from invisibles arising from sales of foreign exchange by the Vietnamese and foreign governments. A ll other proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered at the limited parallel market rate of VN $ 4 10 per US $ 1. Fore ign military personnel and official U. S. c iv i l ian personnel serving in V i e t -N am are paid in scrip ( "m i l i­ tary payment certificates" or M P C s) which can be exchanged for piastres at the limited parallel market rate of VN $ 4 10 only through official channels. They are not permitted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in V i e t -N am, but there are military banking facilities under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, M P C s, or U. S. dollars at two U. S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering V i e t -N am may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the cus­ toms on entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of V N$ 1,000. Foreign military and c iv i l ian personnel (government officials) must sur­ render on arrival any foreign banknotes they bring into V i e t -N am. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital w i th the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to 470 repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment L aw of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high pr ior i ty. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The m in imum investment in agriculture was established at VN $ 0 .5 m i l l ion, and in industry at V N $1 m i l l ion. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Fore ign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the trans­ fer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment after 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (after 20 years for investment of foreign-owned capital previously held in V i e t -N am ). A ll imports and exports of capital (including imports in k i n d ), except those made by the Vietnamese Government or foreign governments, are settled at the limited parallel market rate. Investments not covered by the Investment Law or by the regime described in the following paragraph are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, wh ich normally authorizes the transfer of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not permit disinvest­ ment; such investments are not eligible for the above- mentioned tax exemptions. Under a "Fore ign Exchange Wo rk ing Cap i tal System" introduced in 1971, foreign capital imported in the form of direct investment or as medium-term and long-term credit in cash or in k ind may be registered w i th the Na t ional Bank and treated as follows. Cap i tal must be brought from abroad and sold through authorized banks, where it is credited to a "Fo re ign Exchange Wo rk ing Accoun t ." Profits, dividends, and interest on such capital may be transferred annually up to a max i­ mum of 20 per cent of the registered amount and repatriation may be made up to an annual maximum of 25 per cent of the registered capital. Gold W i th in V i e t -N am, the holding of gold and a ll trans­ actions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. On ly the Na t ional Bank is empowered to import and export gold. A ll domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxury tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manufacturing cost. The export of gold by physical or jur id ical persons other than the Na t ional Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution physical or jur id ical persons other than the Na t ional Bank is also prohibited, w i th the following exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to V i e t -N am, br ing in up to 13 taels 2 of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) residents may import gold without allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs duty of 130 per 2 One tael equals about 37.57 grams or 1.18 troy ounces. cent and an equalization tax of VN $ 1 00 per U S $ 1; (3) nonresidents may, without allocation of foreign exchange, bring into V i e t -N am any quantity of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody w i th an authorized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in V i e t -N am the sales proceeds must be credited to a Cap i tal Accoun t. V I E T - N AM Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1971) (Piastres per U. S. dollar) Buying 79.20 (Official Rate) No transactions. 117.20 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium of VN$38) Sales of foreign exchange by Vietnamese official agencies and foreign governments. 401.841 (Third Parallel Market Rate less 1% Tax) Proceeds from rubber exports. 405.90 (Third Parallel Market Rate) A ll exchange receipts other than those specified above. 8 Imports of textile piece goods are subject to an equalization tax of VN$200 per US$1; the effective selling rate is VN$477.75, VN$552.75, or VN$604.00, depending on origin and financing. 4 Imports financed with the importer's own foreign exchange (sans devises) are subject to the equalization taxes in force prior to the exchange reform of November 16, 1971; these taxes range from VN$7 to VN$350 per US$1, so that the cost, depending on the commodity, may range between VN$284.75 and VN$754.00 per US$1. Selling 80.80 (Official Rate) No transactions. 118.80 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax of VN$38) Transfers on behalf of Vietnamese official agen­ cies and transfers to students abroad. 277.75 (First Parallel Market Rate) 3 Imports of U. S. origin financed under the Com­ mercial Import Program or U. S. P. L. 480. 352.75 (First Parallel Market Rate plus Equaliza­ tion Tax of VN$75) 3 Imports of non-U. S. origin under the Commer­ cial Import Program. 404.00 (Second Parallel Market Rate) 3 A ll other imports financed with exchange alloca­ tions.4 414.10 (Third Parallel Market Rate) A ll payments for invisibles other than those spe­ cified above. Authorized capital outflows. Changes during 1971 February 3. By Joint Decision N o. 34 of the M in i s­ tries of Economy and Finance the complementary sub­ sidy for black tea exports was reintroduced. The sub­ sidy amounted to VN $ 1 25 per US$1 of repatriated export proceeds and applied retroactively to such pro­ ceeds repatriated after October 4, 1970. March 6. By Interministerial Order N o. 86 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance the parallel market rate of VN$277 .75 per US$1 was made applicable to payments of freight, insurance, and incidental expenses relating to imports with V ie t -Nam 's own foreign exchange, imports under foreign credit insur­ ance, and imports under the U. S. P. L. 480 program, except specified petroleum products. These payments previously were settled at the VN $ 1 1 8 . 80 rate. Cus­ toms duties and the austerity tax continued to be calculated on the basis of V N $ 80 per U S $ 1. May 19. Import deposit requirements were removed for 29 categories of goods, mostly chemicals and machinery. June 7. Joint Order N o. 242 established, in addition to the existing import procedures, an "Import C red i t" system for imports of specified commodities financed with V ie t -Nam 's own foreign exchange. Imports under this system were exempt from licensing. An importer could obtain on request an "import fund" in foreign exchange from an authorized bank, provided that he deposited: (a) the counterpart of the goods computed at the rate of VN $ 2 75 per U S $ 1; (b) an equalization 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution V I E T - N AM tax of VN $ 1 25 per US $ 1, irrespective of the type of commodity; and (c) any import deposit that might be specified by circular. The "import fund" had to be utilized within one year for the opening of a letter of credit; it could not be returned to commercial banks but could be transferred freely to another importer. The goods for wh ich the system could be used were a ll goods permitted to be financed w i th V ie t-Nam's own resources (i.e., excluding those being imported w i th U. S. A ID funds or included in the prohibited l i s t ), whether previ­ ously payable through the official or the parallel market, with the exception only of automobiles, two-wheeled or three-wheeled vehicles, fresh fruits and vegetables, and a ll completely knocked-down television and radio sets not of three specified makes. The goods had to be imported direct from the country of or ig in. Imports under this system were subject to a ll existing customs duties and austerity taxes. June 7. The following prescription of currency rules went into effect for imports under the "Import C red i t" system: payment in sterling for goods of Hong K o ng origin and provenance purchased from a supplier in Hong K o n g; payment in French francs for goods of F rench origin and provenance purchased from a supplier in France; and payment in U. S. dollars in a ll other cases. June 10. By order N o. 250 of the M in i s t ry of Economy, export licensing requirements were abolished except for the fo l low ing: rubber, imported products, products using imported raw materials, products financed under U. S. P. L. 480 as we ll as similar domestic products, metals and scrap metals, antiques, military equipment, and export services. June 10. Order N o. 251 of the M in i s t ry of Economy established a supplementary subsidy of V N $ 75 per US$1 for exports exempt from licensing requirements. The subsidy was paid by the Na t ional Bank of V ie t- N am through authorized banks. July 2. A new equalization tax was imposed on cer­ tain imports financed by the U. S. A I D. The tax was V N $ 10 to V N $ 80 per US$1 and the goods concerned included pulp, soybean o i l, and cotton yarn. July 8. An Interministerial Order of the Ministries of Economy and Finance specified that the parallel market rate did not apply to duty-free imports effected, whether directly or through the intermediary of the Office de Ravitaillement Central, by administrative or military organizations, provided the expenditures were included in the Na t ional Budget or a regional budget. Such im­ ports, therefore, were eligible for the VN $ 1 18 rate. July 20. Joint Communique N o. 145 of the M i n i s­ tries of Economy and Finance specified the conditions under which goods entering V i e t -N am as "baggage accompanying owner through the Tan Son Nhut air­ port" were exempt from all entry taxes and from licensing requirements. August 23. The spot buying and selling rates of the Na t ional Bank and the authorized exchange banks for 472 the U. S. dollar were maintained at VN$117 .20 -118 .80 in the official exchange market and at VN$272 .25 -277 .75 in the limited parallel market. September 1. The Na t ional Bank limited its foreign dealings to the U. S. dollar and suspended quotations for the French franc and the pound sterling. The offi­ c ial quotation of these currencies was resumed on December 21, 1971. September 1. Henceforth a ll imports financed w i th V ie t-Nam's own reserves had in practice to be settled in U. S. dollars. In exceptional cases, however, import­ ers could be granted an exemption from this require­ ment. Previously, in addition to the U. S. dollar, settle­ ments also took place in French francs and pounds sterling, but the U. S. dollar already was the only cur­ rency used for imports from sources other than France and Hong K o ng that were financed by V i e t -N am. September 4. By Joint Decision N o. 373 of the M i n­ istries of Economy and Finance, an export subsidy of V N $ 50 per US$1 was established for black tea. The subsidy was additional to the V N $ 75 per US$1 export subsidy established on June 10, 1971 and was retroac­ tive to that date. September 22. Communique N o. 162 of the M in is t ry of Economy set new advance deposit rates for imports under the U. S. A ID program. September 22. The Na t ional Bank's Notice N o. 86 to Banks went into effect. It confirmed officially that for financial settlements under the export and import pro­ grams financed with Vietnamese resources, the Na t ional Bank would buy and sell U. S. dollars only (except for imports under the French credit insurance procedure). Importers were allowed limited forward cover facilities at authorized banks for cases where suppliers' invoices were expressed in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Ne th­ erlands guilders, or pounds sterling. September 30. Order N o. 435 and Communique N o. 166 of the M in i s t ry of Economy specified that the sup­ ply of certain products and services (lumber, clothing, batteries, etc.) to the U. S. Government by Vietnamese contractors within the territory of V i e t -N am, if settled in U. S. dollars, would be considered as on-the-spot exports and benefit from the VN $ 75 per US$1 export subsidy of June 10, 1971. November 15. An exchange reform was promulgated, which took effect the next day. Pending the approval by the Na t ional Assembly of a law authorizing the G o v­ ernment to change the official parity, the rate in the official exchange market remained at VN $ 1 18 = U S $ 1, but would apply only to outward transfers by the V ie t­ namese Government, inward transfers from foreign gov­ ernments, and transfers to students abroad; this rate would no longer apply to any imports. W i th in the limited parallel market, where previously a fixed rate of VN $ 2 75 per US$1 was applied, a three-tier system was established: an exchange rate of VN $ 2 75 per US$1 would be applicable to imports under the Commerc ial Import Program and under the U. S. P. L. 480 T i t le I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution program; an exchange rate of VN $ 4 00 per US$1 would apply to a ll other imports; an exchange rate of VN $ 4 10 would apply to a ll exports and a ll other transactions. It was announced that the new rate structure wou ld be managed as a flexible system w i th frequent adjustments in small steps commensurate w i th the rate of inflation. Du r ing the rest of the year, however, no further adjust­ ments in the basic rates of the new exchange rate struc­ ture took place. It was also stated that protective policies were being reviewed; a simplified customs tariff would be intro­ duced, austerity taxes would be abolished, and the scope of import prohibitions would be reduced. November 15. By Decree N o. 148 an Exchange C om­ mittee composed of the M in is ter of Finance as Cha i r­ man, and the Minister of Economy and the Governor of the Na t ional Bank as members was established with the following responsibilities: determining the criteria and procedures for the organization and functioning of the parallel exchange market; determining the exchange rates applicable to operations effected in the parallel exchange market; and deciding on any other necessary measures relative to that market. The decree, which replaced Decree N o. 116 of October 3, 1970, also specified the transactions having access to the parallel exchange market. U n t il further notice, the U. S. dollar would be the only currency admitted to the parallel exchange market. November 15. No t ice N o. 0 1 0 / 9 5 /D of the Na t ional Bank supplemented Decree N o. 148. It specified the transactions eligible for the parallel exchange market and the exchange rates and procedures applicable. It also specified that, except for certain specified transac­ tions, foreign exchange sales in the parallel exchange market no longer required authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange. November 15. No t ice N o. 0 1 0 / 9 6 /D of the Na t ional Bank allowed authorized banks, under certain condi­ tions, to delegate to hotels the right to purchase foreign exchange from tourists. November 15. Joint Decision N o. 498 of the M i n i s­ tries of Economy and Finance established a "Foreign Exchange Wo rk ing Cap i tal System" to encourage the inflow of capital in the form of direct investment and of medium-term or long-term credit in cash or in k ind. Profits, dividends, and interest on capital registered under this regime could be transferred annually up to 20 per cent of the registered capital and the capital itself could be repatriated at a rate not exceeding 25 per cent a year. November 15. By Decree N o. 1120 the amount of foreign exchange which may be directly granted by the Directorate-General of Exchange for the import of cu l­ tural publications, machinery spare parts, and noncom­ mercial articles was raised from US$50 to US$100. November 15. By Interministerial Decree N o. 494 a ll imports financed with V ie t -Nam 's own foreign exchange (with the exceptions listed under June 7: automobiles, V I E T - N AM etc.) could be effected only under the "Import C red i t" system, under which no import licenses were required. The existing prohibited import list remained in effect. Henceforth, the Na t ional Bank would make available to authorized banks the foreign exchange for the "Import C red i t" funds concerned, but without giving an exchange rate guarantee. Imports under this procedure wou ld temporarily be exempt from import deposits, but import duty and austerity tax were payable in accordance w i th existing regulations, and equalization taxes wou ld be applicable as the Minister might direct. Implementing Notice N o. 186 replaced No t ice N o. 115 of June 9, 1971. November 15. By Decree N o. 677 a Na t ional Coun­ c il for Export Promotion was established under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. November 15. Interministerial Order N o. 492 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance established as an interim measure a system of supplementary equaliza­ tion taxes and subsidies, pending the enactment of the new customs tariff. These taxes and subsidies were ca l­ culated so as to result in the same import tax receipts envisaged under the new customs tariff. The system was abolished the same day. The equalization taxes existing pr ior to November 15 also were abolished, except for imports sans devises (see next en try). November 15. By Interministerial Order N o. 493 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, the equaliza­ tion taxes applicable to imported goods were amended as follows: Goods of U. S. origin imported under the Commerc ial Import Program, goods imported under U. S. P. L. 480, and goods imported under other import programs were exempt. Goods of non -U. S. origin imported under the Commerc ial Import Program were subject to an equalization tax rate of V N $ 75 per US $ 1. Goods imported without foreign exchange (sans devises) remained subject to the previous system of equalization taxes, ranging from V N $7 to VN $ 3 50 per U S $ 1. November 15. Joint Decree N o. 495 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance established an E F AC (Expo r­ t a t i o n, F ra is Accessoires) system allowing exporters to retain an "export surcharge" of 3 per cent of total export proceeds for the settlement of incidental expenses related to the export transaction. November 15. By Joint Decision N o. 496 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance the supplementary subsidy of V N $ 50 per US$1 on exports of black tea was abolished. November 15. By Decree N o. 497 of the M in i s t ry of Economy the export subsidy on "on-the-spck" exports and that of V N $ 75 per US$1 on minor exports were abolished. November 15. By Joint Communique N o. 187 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance exporters holding introduction papers from the M in is t ry of Economy were exempted from exit fees when traveling on busi­ ness abroad. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution V I E T - N AM November 15. Communique N o. 189 of the M in is ter of Economy provided that the profit margin on imported goods could not exceed 20 per cent. November 15. Advance deposits on imports under the import credit procedure were abolished. November 16. By No t ice N o. 185 of the M in i s t ry of Economy import procedures under the U. S. A ID financing program were simplified considerably and those goods previously subject under it to advance deposit requirements became exempt. November 16. A ll austerity taxes on imports were abolished. November 19. An equalization tax of VN $ 2 00 per US$1 was levied on a ll imports of textile piece goods. December 1. The exit visa fees and travel allowances for Vietnamese citizens were modified. The exit visa fee for travel to the Khmer Republic and Laos was set at VN $ 5 , 0 0 0; that for travel to other A s ian countries and Aus tra l ia was V N$ 15,000-105,000, depending on the duration of the tr ip; and the fee for European, A f r i c an, and Ame r ican countries was VN$50 ,000 -140 ,000, depending on duration. The new exchange allocations were US$30 a day for the Khm er Repub l ic and Laos, up to US$300 a person a tr ip; and US$40 a day for travel to other countries, subject to a maximum of US$2 ,400 a person a tr ip. Previously, resident nationals could take a trip abroad only once a year, and for non­ medical travel the exchange allocation could not exceed US$300. December 20. The authorities decided not to make any changes in their exchange system or exchange market practices and continued to peg their currency to the U. S. dollar. December 21. The Na t ional Bank resumed official quotations for the French franc and the pound sterling. December. The Government submitted to the N a­ tional Assembly a b i ll for the reform of import tax­ ation. The b i ll provided for the abolition of austerity taxes and a revision of the customs tariff. The latter would be simplified to include only four rates of duty: 0, 25, 50, and 200 per cent ad valorem. Most commodi­ ties were to be classified in the 0 and 25 per cent categories. The 200 per cent rate was to be applied to personal motor vehicles only. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Western Samoan Ta la has been established w i th the Fund. A fixed relationship is main­ tained between the tala and the New Zealand dollar; the middle rate is WS$0.8076 = N Z $ 1, and the buying and selling rates are WS$0.8019 and WS$0.8132 per N Z $ 1, respectively. The buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar are US$1.4937 and US$1 .4662, respec­ tively, per WS $ 1. Administration of Control Western Samoa is a member of the Sterling A r e a. Exchange control is administered by the M in is ter of Finance operating as the exchange control authority; the M in is ter may delegate his approval authority to the F inanc ial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to authorized banks. A ll payments to non­ residents of Western Samoa require the approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. The M in is t ry, however, has dele­ gated to the Bank of Western Samoa, the only author­ ized bank, authority to approve certain payments up to any amount and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency A l though Western Samoa is a member of the Sterling A r e a, and although most settlements with Sterling A r ea territories take place in Sterling A r ea currencies, there are no prescriptions as to the currencies in wh ich pay­ ments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi­ dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from a ll sources, mainly for reasons of security or health. Most other commodities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual allocation of foreign exchange which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited except automobiles. The allocations are made by the M in i s t ry of Finance and communicated to the Bank of Western Samoa; the latter automatically provides the foreign exchange required for import pay­ ments upon submission of documentary evidence. Per­ sons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance for imports of higher value. The import of automobiles, 1 Western Samoa became a member of the International Monetary Fund on December 28, 1971. whether for business or personal use, is subject to spe­ cific approval on a case-by-case basis by the M in is t ry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles are approved auto­ matically by the Bank of Western Samoa up to any amount or within limits determined by the M in is t ry of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for a ll other invisibles require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance. Remittances in respect of study abroad are freely authorized up to the equivalent of WS$600 a student. The Bank of Western Samoa approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pensions, rents, interests, and dividends by persons permanently resident overseas. Residents traveling to Amer ican Samoa, whether for business or private purposes, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$50 a person a quarter; an additional allowance of US$15 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other countries is equivalent to WS$10 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance, up to WS$20 a person a trip. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly a ll exports require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Cop ra exports are controlled by the Cop ra Boa rd. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa within a specified time after shipment. A ll exports are subject to export duties rang­ ing from 5 to 10 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Resident travelers must on return sell to the Bank a ll foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes. Capital A ll outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the M in is t ry of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries per­ manently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The Bank of Western Samoa approves transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W E S T E RN S A M OA either for special family occasions or by way of mainte­ nance, up to WS$200 a year for each family group. Foreign investments in Western Samoa are encouraged. The "Enterprises Incentive A c t" N o. 27 /1965, as amended in 1969, makes provision for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and busi­ ness license fees to persons engaged in approved enter­ prises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold in any form. Changes during 1971 August 24. The existing parity relationship for ster­ l ing was maintained, as was the Western Samoan tala's peg on the New Zealand dollar. As a result, the tala began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar. Pre­ viously, the effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar had been WS$1 = US$1 ,387. December 24. The existing parity relationship for sterling was maintained, as was the peg on the New Zealand do l lar. As a result, the effective parity rela­ tionship for the U. S. dollar became WS$1 = US$1 .496. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y EM EN ARAB REPUBL IC Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen A r ab Republic is the Yemen R i a l, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established with the F u n d. A ll transactions take place in a free market at a fluctuating exchange rate; on December 23, 1971 the rate for the U. S. dollar was about Y R ls 4.69 per U S $ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered on behalf of the M in is ter of Economy by the Central Bank of Yemen, which has the authority to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports. The only commercial banks and authorized dealers are the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( Y B R D) and two branches of foreign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements under bilateral payments arrangements 1 are made in the currencies and through the accounts provided for by these arrangements. Otherwise, settle­ ments are usually made in pounds sterling or U. S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are reserved for the Government. A ll other imports require import licenses. These are in principle issued in accordance with a list of authorized imports which was established by Decree N o. 1 of January 1969 and is reviewed periodically, but licenses are issued freely for a ll commodities for which government agen­ cies do not have the exclusive right of importation. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the free market. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad do not require an import license. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem and a statistical tax of 2 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments in respect of invisibles require an exchange license issued by the Central Bank. Remit­ tances of savings by expatriates are permitted up to 50 per cent of annual salary. Resident nationals may remit up to the equivalent of £ stg. 30 a ch i ld a month for educational purposes. Foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad is freely granted. F or tourist travel, the Central Bank authorizes foreign exchange 1 The Yemen Arab Republic maintains a bilateral payments arrange­ ment with Egypt. according to the merits of the application. F or business travel, authorization is freely granted. In principle, travelers require the prior authorization of the Central Bank to take out Yemen currency in excess of Y R ls 200 or any foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. A ll exports require export licenses. Exporters are in principle required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within three months from shipment. In practice, the surrender requirement for exports of cotton, coffee, salt, and hides and skins is 50 per cent, payable within three months from shipment; the remaining 50 per cent may be kept by the exporter as a foreign currency deposit with a commercial bank and may be used freely for authorized transactions. Proceeds from qat exports are subject to 100 per cent surrender in Yemeni dinars w i th in 15 days from shipment, a 5 per cent in i t ial deposit having to be made at the Y B RD upon receipt of the license. Other exports (comprising mainly fruits, fish, and tobacco) are not subject to surrender requirements in cash terms, but the proceeds must be used fully for importing food, and an in i t ial r ial deposit of 5 per cent of the export value is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered but citizens of the Yemen A rab Republic may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with commercial banks. In principle, the import of foreign exchange (whether in the form of gold, silver, currency, or drafts) and of banknotes of the Yemen A rab Republic requires the prior authorization of the Central Bank, but foreign nationals and nonresidents are exempt from these provisions. Capital A ll capital transfers require prior approval and capi­ tal proceeds must be surrendered. Both domestic and foreign investment are regulated by Law N o. 13 of 1970. Foreign investors in the Yemen A r ab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or their capital. Gold A 20-rial gold coin has been issued, which is not legal tender and does not circulate in the Yemen A r ab Repub l ic. Dealings in gold are governed by Regula­ tion N o. 5 of 1967. The Regulation stipulates that, apart from dealings for numismatic or ornamental purposes, residents may not deal in gold except with the authori­ zation of the M in is ter of Economy. Residents coming into possession of gold (other than ornaments or 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y E M EN A R AB R E P U B L IC numismatic coins) are required to offer it for sale to a licensed gold dealer. Licensed dealers are in turn required to sell any gold so acquired to the Y B RD within one week from the date of purchase. Changes during 1971 May 16. The preferential rate for sales of foreign exchange to employees of the Y B RD was discontinued; this rate, the market rate minus 10 per cent, had been applicable to sales for travel purposes and personal remittances. June 1. The Y B RD abolished its fee of Y R ls 0.05 per <£ stg. 1 on sales of foreign exchange to the p r i­ vate sector. July 27. Law N o. 4 was promulgated; it established the Central Bank of Yemen, which began operations the same day, and abrogated Law N o. 6 of 1964 which had created the Yemen Currency Board. The gold parity provision laid down in the Currency Board law was revoked ( r ial 1 equivalent to 0.829427 gram of fine go ld ). The Central Bank was empowered to issue the national currency, to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports, and to administer exchange control on behalf of the M in is ter of Economy. August 23. The free exchange market continued to operate without change. December 21. The free exchange market continued to operate without change. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE 'S DEMOCRAT IC REPUBLIC OF Y EM EN Exchange Rate System 1 The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni D ina r, which is issued by the Yemeni Currency Au thor i ty and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value has been established for the Yemeni dinar. The currency is at par with the pound sterling. The effective parity rela­ tionship for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1971 was about YD 1 = US$2 .60. The Yemeni Currency Au tho r­ ity's rates for the purchase and sale of pounds sterling in transactions with the public are fixed at P EO P L E 'S D E M O C R A T IC R E P U B L IC OF Y E M EN the Exchange Controller. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under 1 0 ) .3 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises and the o il refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent and three eighths, respectively, of their total earnings (net of taxes). A ll insurance is nationalized and existing policies have been transferred to the Na t ional Insurance and Reinsurance Company. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are exempt from licenses. Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. lished may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold On ly the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bu l l ion. Licensed gold­ smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments up to specified limits set by the Exchange Controller. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Industry, except in special cases when the consent of the Exchange Controller is required. Travelers entering the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may bring in reasonable amounts of gold in any form; departing travelers may take out reasonable amounts of gold ornaments only. Imports and exports of gold by trav­ elers are subject only to customs control, but incoming travelers must sell to an authorized dealer any gold coins or bu l l ion they carry. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes during 1971 A ll claims of residents for services rendered to non­ residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) when due and sur­ rendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes but not more than YD 5 in domestic currency. Capital V i r tua l ly a ll capital payments and transactions require prior approval. However, external borrowing by non­ resident firms operating in Ad en is exempt. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their l iqu id funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the P ro­ motion of Industrial Development (Law N o. 23 of M ay 14, 1971) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. A ll remittances abroad of interest and profits require pr ior approval by the Exchange Controller. Profit re­ mittances abroad by foreign firms under Law N o. 23 also are subject to the Exchange Con trol Law (Law N o. 16) and in any one year should not normally ex­ ceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans ob­ tained abroad after the firm concerned has been estab- 3 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf States. 480 April April 21. An Exchange Con trol L aw, Law N o. 16, was enacted. It created a Foreign Exchange Committee charged with the issuance of regulations for the imple­ mentation of the Exchange Con t rol L aw. April 21. The o il refinery ceased to be treated as a nonresident entity. 21. Exchange allocations for tourism were increased. May 5. Law N o. 21 was enacted. It empowered the M in i s t ry of Economy and Industry to organize and plan export and import trade. Simultaneously, Resolu­ tion N o. 16 was issued, introducing import licenses of up to 12 months' validity for companies in the public sector. May 14. L aw N o. 23 was enacted. It empowered the M in is t ry of Economy and Industry, inter alia, to grant special concessions to national and foreign capital for the promotion of industrial development. July 14. Law N o. 37 of 1971 amended the Currency Law, Law N o. 10 of 1964, as amended by Law N o. 15 of 1968. The Currency Au thor i ty was renamed the Yemeni Currency Au tho r i ty. Its functions and powers were expanded. July 18. The transfer duty of 1 per cent wh ich was levied on certain personal remittances and on for­ eign exchange made available for nonofflcial travel (including travelers checks issued by banks) was abol­ ished. August 18. The dinar was maintained at par with the pound sterling. The exchange rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at YD 1 — US$2 .40 only for noncom­ mercial transactions invoiced in U. S. dollars. October 8. Imports of matches, nails, wooden furn i- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P EO P L E 'S D E M O C R A T IC R E P U B L IC OF Y E M EN ture, raw tobacco, salt, plastic footwear, and certain other items were prohibited. October 8. Imports of confectionery and biscuits from A r ab or socialist countries were liberalized, as were imports of edible o i l, most footwear, and metal furniture from a ll sources. October 25. The Na t ional Company for Home Trade was given a monopoly over imports of pharma­ ceuticals, soap, detergents, powdered m i lk, condensed m i lk, butter, cheese, cement, lumber, construction steel, plows, tractors, pumps, and certain other items. November 22. An Investment L aw, Law N o. 53, was enacted. It provided that only the Yemeni Currency Au tho r i ty and the Na t ional Bank of Yemen could invest or deposit funds abroad. A ll existing deposits abroad of public corporations were required to be repatriated. December 21. The gold content of the dinar remained unchanged and the dinar was maintained at par with the pound sterling. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became approximately US$2 .60 per dinar. (With effect from January 12, 1972, a central rate of YD 1 per US$2.60571 was established.) 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAV IA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0481478 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav D inar. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is D in 17.00 = US $ 1. There is no exchange market. The Na t ional Bank quotes rates for leading convertible currencies on the basis of their rates against the U. S. dollar in international centers. On Decem­ ber 31, 1971 the Na t ional Bank's buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were D in 17.00 and D in 17.15. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Counc il prescribes the general pro­ visions in respect of foreign trade and exchange trans­ actions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Sec­ retariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange control. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. A ll foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the Na t ional Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. F u l ly authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 m i l l ion and an annual exchange turnover of at least US$80 m i l l ion, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugo­ slavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees). L im i ted author­ ized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Au thor ized exchange offices may only deal in foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to a ll commercial and savings banks. Commerc ial exports and imports may be effected by a ll economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose with district courts. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain conditions, including the provision of minimum working capital for trade enterprises, are fu l­ filled. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organizations which export and /or import on their own behalf. 4 82 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo­ slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugos lav ia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral accounts as follows: (1) in U . S. dollars with Afghanistan, A lban ia, A lge r ia, B r a z i l, Bulgaria, Czecho­ slovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Mongo l ia, Po land ,. Rumania, and the U. S. S. R .; and (2) in their respective currencies w i th India and Iraq. Certain settlements with Co lomb ia, Mex ico, and P a k i­ stan take place through special accounts. A degree of multilateralization of payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan and Iraq. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugos lav ia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugos lav ia. F o r­ eign missions and foreigners resident in Yugos lav ia may freely open with authorized banks accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars .1 Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident jur id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugos lav ia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con­ vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the account-holding bank's being pre­ pared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for foreign jur id ical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia and subject to prior approval by the Na t ional Bank. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugos lav ia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to wh ich the account is related. Nonresident jur id ical and physical persons may also open dinar accounts with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Y u g o- 1 With effect from January 1, 1972, foreign juridical and physical persons could freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts could be freely credited for amounts whose transfer in convertible currency had been authorized, and they could freely be debited for permitted payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in any convertible currency. 2 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor­ wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Other convertible currencies must be converted into one or more of the foregoing currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution slavia in accordance with the existing regulations or subject to the approval of the Na t ional Bank of Yugo­ slavia. Balances are in principle nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his close family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign ju r id ical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright roya l­ ties or from work performed in Yugoslavia by for­ eigners, from pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugos lav ia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accord­ ance w i th the existing regulations. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies with any authorized bank, provided that they originate from receipts speci­ fied in the relevant regulations. These accounts are kept in the currency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid partly in the foreign currency deposited and partly in dinars. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immedi­ ate family; balances are not transferable to other per­ sons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisi­ bles, below). Yugoslav emigrants residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugos lav ia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Fore ign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of currencies of Eastern European coun t r i e s3 and Mongo l ia the accounts are denominated in account dollars; for other bilateral currencies 4 the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugos lav ia or for retransfers to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Imports and Import Payments Comme rc ial imports may be effected only by economic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial producers are registered. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible o i l, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. F or most commodities, import licenses are not required. A ll commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in four categories according to the manner in which exchange is made available: LB — l ib e r a l i z ed goods; GDK — g o o ds imported under 3 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 4 Algeria, Afghanistan, Brazil, Greece, India, and Iraq. Y U G O S L A V IA global exchange quotas; RK and DK —goods subject to individual quotas ( RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d inars); and D— imports subject to ad hoc licensing. About 1,850 items (out of a total of over 4,500) are classified under L B; protective equipment for workers and a ll other goods not specifically included in the G D K, R K, D K, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts; they also include some consumer goods. In 1971 goods currently imported under the LB regime accounted for about 29 per cent of total imports. Exchange for payments for LB imports from the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of l ib­ eralized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant pay­ ments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The G DK list comprises most consumer goods, most raw materials, and most capital equipment. In 1971 imports of commodities presently on this list amounted to about 46 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several different procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows. Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as G D K. F or certain imports by the metal-working, shipbuilding, electrical, and textile industries the authority to use the allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports that the importers have made (import-export l ink ing ) .5 Ma jor exporters, i.e., export­ ers whose exports settled in convertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to pay freely for imports of raw materials and other reproduction materials for their own needs. Payment for imports of capital goods on the G DK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), funds originat­ ing in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large invest­ ment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. Econom ic organizations may acquire foreign exchange not exceed­ ing 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance. Certain services may use percentages varying between 30 per cent (ocean and river shipping) and 100 per cent (air transportation). One half of the exchange thus allocated is in convertible and one half in bilateral currency. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list This system is also applied to certain DK imports. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y U G O S L A V IA D K ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also cigars, cigarettes, and machine tools, are subject to maximum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities ( R K) or in dinars ( D K ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.6 Imports of present RK and DK items amounted to about 21 per cent of imports in 1971. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammunition, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, certain textile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad ro l l ing stock, and aircraft. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. Such licenses do not imply the right to purchase foreign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Imports of D items accounted for 4.3 per cent of total imports in 1971. F or certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, for a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secre­ tariat for Foreign Trade. These goods are 52 LB items, 37 G DK items, and 4 RK items. F or a ll 93 items, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of or ig in; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or for the use of close relatives, regard­ less of the import regime for the goods. A l s o, Yugo­ slavs returning from work abroad may import goods intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided that such goods were paid for from the savings from their foreign earnings; such sav­ ings need not be kept on foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may only import motorcars, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, through a registered enterprise, provided that payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following c ircum­ stances: when they return for permanent residence in Yugos lav ia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indem­ nity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con­ tinuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. However, if the value of the goods exceeds D in 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the cus­ toms duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances; in 1971 they accounted for less than 1 per cent of total imports. Importers are required to notify authorized banks of a ll payments abroad of more than the equivalent of US$5 ,000 7 one month before the payments fall due. At this time 8 they are also required to deposit with an authorized bank an amount in dinars equal in value to the import order. The deposits are not interest bearing and they are used to purchase the foreign exchange for the import payment. Deposits are not required for payments made by debiting foreign exchange accounts of importers. M any agricultural commodities and foodstuffs are subject to variable import levies. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax are payable on a ll commodities not exempt from customs duty; in addition, an import surcharge of 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for a ll commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans­ actions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferable under certain conditions. Pay­ ments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with wh ich Yugos lav ia main­ tains bilateral payments arrangements, then such pay­ ments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done. The Na t ional Bank may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$32 for 6 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations within the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Administration, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. 7 However, for imports of certain raw materials only payments of more than US$100,000 are governed by this regulation, and no dinar advance deposit is required. y The implementing rules are such that deposits for payments in non- convertible currencies for imports from the bilateral area may be made less than one month before payments fall due. The average effec­ tive deposit period for all payments has been 15-20 days. 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The Na t ional Bank may sell any amount of foreign exchange for certain unspecified purposes and in justified cases. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$32 for each person over 14 for tourist travel abroad (abolished on January 1, 1972). Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allocations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against pay­ ment in dinars. The Na t ional Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and ind iv idual travel in amounts exceeding the equiv­ alent of US$32. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remittor's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and socio-political organizations, from specific annual allocations); when such exchange is not available, payments for invisibles that have not been liberalized are subject to the approval of the Na t ional Bank. N ot more than D in 100, in denominations of D in 10 or less,9 may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market, inc lud ing copper and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global approva l). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries. In accord­ ance with bilateral arrangements, Yugos lav ia restrains exports of certain commodities to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, and the Un i ted States. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the rele­ vant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged 9 Raised to Din 500, in denominations of Din 50 or less, on Janu­ ary 1, 1972. Y U G O S L A V IA in setting up trade fairs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and cannot earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with authorized banks. The per­ mitted retention rates vary according to the type of export concerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic organization concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past year; the basic rate is 7 per cent but for many economic organizations the actually permitted rate is much higher, the other fixed rates being 10, 12, 20, 50, 60, and 100 per cent and the rate for most organizations being on a progressive scale. In some instances (foreign tourist services, sales of newly mined gold to the Na t ional B a n k ), sales against pay­ ment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Producing enterprises selling consumer goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency may retain 50 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned (reduced to 15 per cent with effect from January 1, 1972). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable but need not be surrendered in fu l l. Various retention quota rates apply to receipts from services. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected w i th the activities of the economic organizations concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Resi­ dents who, while employed abroad, deposited their sav­ ings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings from per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, and from royalties. They may also be credited with the full amount of foreign exchange accru­ ing from inheritances, indemnities, insurance, and similar compensations up to an amount equivalent to D in 136,000 per transaction; for amounts in excess of this figure, 50 per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of the account and 50 per cent must be surrendered. In respect of pensions, disabled persons' allowances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, up to 30 per cent of the total amount received may be placed to the credit of a foreign 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y U G O S L A V IA exchange account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by authorized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugos lav ia paying in foreign exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption from turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than D in 200 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of D in 10 or less ,10 may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fully authorized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quotas, or their foreign exchange amortization allocations. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the Na t ional Bank. Loans must ord i­ narily be repaid with foreign exchange that is either obtained by the economic organization as export reten­ tion quotas and foreign exchange amortization alloca­ tions or acquired from banks according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime. Credits in the latter category are trade credits usually up to 360 days matu­ r i ty; counterpart payments in dinars must be made according to the Na t ional Bank regulations in force at the time. In 1971 the requirement in the case of LB imports was 50 per cent down and 50 per cent after three months; for G DK imports, 70 per cent was pay­ able immediately and the remainder within six months. F or import credits guaranteed by Yugoslav commercial banks, there is a required deposit in foreign exchange with the Na t ional Bank of 10 per cent, wh ich yields no interest and is held to maturity of the loan. In the case of guaranteed financial credits, the deposit requirement is 20 per cent. A ll other transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations but only through joint ventures; such for­ eign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organi­ zation's capital. Profit transfers abroad may be financed from the retention quota, and in addition profit trans­ fers are permitted up to one third of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Foreign firms are permitted to establish repre­ sentational offices in Yugoslavia. Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons are permitted to purchase bonds issued by Yugoslav enterprises, socio-political commu­ nities, and other socio-legal persons. 10 Raised to Din 500, in denominations of Din 50 or less, on Janu­ ary 1, 1972. 486 The investment income of Yugoslav economic organi­ zations earned abroad is subject neither to repatriation nor to surrender requirements. If repatriated, however, the profits are governed by the regulations for retention quotas. Residents are obliged to repatriate and, w i th the exception of inheritances, to surrender a ll foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Cap i tal transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved, but economic organizations participating in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secre­ tariat for Fore ign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A decision of the Federal Executive Coun c il of Octo­ ber 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to con­ tinue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the Un i ted States, provided that the remittance is requested w i th in three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold The Na t ional Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugos lav ia, which may be sold to the Na t ional Bank of Yugos lav ia or to any authorized bank, and they may freely ho ld, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other arti­ cles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jew­ elry under the G DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au tho r­ ized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the Na t ional Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the D in 17 per U. S. do l­ lar rate to a price of US$35 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota in con­ vertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price wh ich equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each ind iv idua l ly. Changes during 1971 January 1. The import-export l ink ing arrangements were reduced substantially for the textile, metal-working, and electrical industries, while they remained unchanged for the shipbuilding industry. January 1. The L BO and L B O* import lists were abolished; at the same time a ll other "one asterisk" import requirements were eliminated. Most of the prod­ ucts on the L BO list were transferred to the LB list. The L BO list had comprised goods whose importation was conditionally liberalized; they were liberalized for import from convertible currency countries provided that certain imports also took place from bilateral coun­ tries. Previously, certain L BO and RK items had been marked w i th an asterisk to indicate that the allocation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of exchange was conditional on pr ior agreement between importers and domestic producers of the same or similar commodities concerning the method of importation, the volume of imports under trade agreements, etc.; most of the products covered by these requirements were trans­ ferred to the RK list. January 1. The interest rate on foreign currency time deposits of over one year was raised from 7 per cent to 7% per cent per annum. January 1. The rate of the advance import deposit requirement was reduced from 30 per cent to 20 per cent. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. January 3. The bilateral payments agreement with Gu inea was terminated. January 23. The par value was changed from D in 12.50 per US$1 to D in 15 per U S $ 1. January 24. The requirement of a prior import deposit equivalent to 20 per cent of the import payment for imports of most commodities from nonpayments agree­ ment countries was eliminated. January 24. The rate of the import surcharge was reduced from 5 per cent to 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border. February 1. The import-export l ink ing arrangements for the textile industry were reinstated. February 25. Amendments were published to the regu­ lations governing the entry of new foreign firms into Yugos lav ia; they became effective M a r ch 3, 1971. March 31. The bilateral payments agreement with M a li was terminated. April 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Tu r­ key was terminated. April 23. Customs duties were reduced on imported equipment for wide segments of "basic" industry, inc lud­ ing those producing cement, ships, aluminum, paper and wood products, coke, iron, steel and steel products, fer­ rous alloys, copper, sodium and sulphuric acid, and lead and zinc-type metals. April 24. A special global foreign exchange quota of D in 60 m i l l ion for the remainder of 1971 was made available for the importation of small agricultural equipment. June 4. The "accordance" system for imports was restricted to 24 LB items, 26 G DK items, and 4 RK items. June 18. New limits of US$1 ,600 a year were estab­ lished for importation by private professional persons of machines, tools, and spare parts. July 14. Agreement was reached with India that set­ tlements would be placed on a convertible currency basis w i th effect from January 1, 1973. July 29. The domestic sale on credit terms was pro­ hibited of imported automobiles and other manufactured products whose import content exceeded 50 per cent of Y U G O S L A V IA the domestic selling price. Exempt were items produced under industrial cooperation agreements with foreign partners. July 29. The rate of the import surcharge was increased from 2 per cent to 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border. July 29. Exporters of services became ineligible to receive "major exporter" status. July 29. G lob al exchange quotas for payments for imports of raw materials and intermediate goods were reduced by 20 per cent for the second half of 1971. July 29. G lob al exchange quotas for imports of per­ sonal consumption goods were reduced for the remainder of 1971; the amount of the reductions would be auto­ matically available after December 31, 1971. July 29. It was announced that economic organiza­ tions could not, after August 9, 1971, utilize their reten­ tion quota to cover foreign exchange expenditures by Yugoslav tourists traveling abroad. July 29. The issuance of import licenses could be made conditional on the prior export of goods from Yugoslavia to the country from wh ich the import was to be made. July 29. Ar t ic les 16 and 17 of the "L aw on Foreign Exchange Operations" were amended to allow Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad to use a ll profits repatriated to Yugoslavia as a retention quota. 5. Exchange allocations through l ink ing arrangements were reduced by 20 per cent for the second half of 1971 for enterprises whose imports exceeded the value of their exports in 1971. August 8. The regulations governing the opera­ tion of joint ventures were revised to eliminate the prov i­ sion which required the foreign partner to either reinvest or deposit in a Yugoslav bank 20 per cent of its annual profits. August 14. A law was promulgated which provided that, in the event of a change in legal provisions, con­ tracts with foreign investors would be treated according to the old or the new legislation, whichever was more convenient for the foreign investor. August 23. The rate for the U. S. dollar was main­ tained at D in 15.00 = U S $ 1. September 20. The Na t ional Bank set new fixed rates for a number of new currencies other than the U. S. dollar to reflect exchange rate developments since August 15. Subsequently, these rates were adjusted periodically. September 23. The Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia authorized commercial banks to convert for Yugoslav resident nationals, upon presentation of their passport, private deposit balances in bilateral currencies into con­ vertible currencies, and vice versa, up to the equivalent of US$3 ,000 a person a year. A range of premiums or discounts were established depending on the currencies converted. August 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Y U G O S L A V IA November 25. A Na t ional Bank instruction was issued which rescinded the September 23, 1971 instruction to banks on the conversion of bilateral balances to con­ vertible currencies. Banks were authorized to convert convertible currencies to bilateral currencies for resident nationals without l im it at official exchange rates for pur­ poses of travel to, and payments i n, the bilateral country concerned. December 1. Interest rates on foreign exchange depos­ its were increased. F or sight deposits the rate was increased from 5.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent, of wh ich 5.5 per cent was paid in the foreign currency deposited (as previously) and 2.0 per cent in dinars. F or time deposits of up to two years the rate was increased from 7.5 per cent to 9.0 per cent, of which 7.5 per cent (as previously) was paid in foreign exchange and 1.5 per cent in dinars. The rate for time deposits of more than two years' maturity was increased to 10.0 per cent, of wh ich 7.5 per cent was received in the foreign currency deposited and 2.5 per cent in dinars. 17. A ll imports of building materials, paper, leather, footwear, and certain consumer durables were made subject to "accordances." December 21. The par value was changed from 0.0592447 to 0.0481478 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav dinar. Yugoslavia would avail itself of wider margins. December The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar became D in 17.00000 = U S $ 1. December 22. A law was published in the Official Gazette which permitted foreign jur id ical and physical persons to purchase bonds issued by Yugoslav enter­ prises, socio-political communities, and other socio-legal persons. December 27. It was announced that a new foreign exchange system wou ld be introduced by the middle of 1972. Th is would include a revision of the method of allocation of foreign exchange between the Federation and the individual Republics. A l so a foreign exchange market would be created. Af ter it had been set up, holders of retention quotas would no longer be allowed to transfer these to other economic organizations; instead, they wou ld have to sell any excess balances on the exchange market, through authorized banks. December 27. It was announced that, w i th effect from January 1, 1972, a uniform retention quota of 20 per cent wou ld be established for a ll export earnings from goods and services other than those from hotel services, for wh ich the quota would be 45 per cent, and from investment projects abroad of Yugoslav enter­ prises, for wh ich it would be 100 per cent. December 31. The 6 per cent import surcharge was extended un t il the end of 1972. 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Za ire. The central rate is Z 1 = US $ 2. The intervention cur­ rency is the U. S. dollar. The Bank of Za i re (the cen­ tral bank) quotes an official rate of exchange for the Belgian franc based on the rate for the zaire quoted on the official exchange market in Brussels. The buying and selling rates for other currencies also are based on official market rates in Brussels. Fo rwa rd exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Za i re has regulatory authority over a ll foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Za i re, and to per­ mit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely w i th­ out a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Fore ign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. in Zaires may only be debited w i th the approval of the Bank of Za i re. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment to a nonresident; they may be debited freely for transfers to other Resi­ dent and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and to accounts abroad. Nonresident nationals require spe­ c ial authorization from the central bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited in accordance with C i rcu lar N o. 131 and debited for con­ version into foreign currency or for any payments in Za i re. Such accounts may be held by residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public po l icy; these are mainly arms, ammunition, narcotics, and juke boxes. Import licenses 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, C FA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. are only required for a few goods on a list A (jewelry, precious stones, precious metals, articles of unhardened rubber, and sugar). The central bank has issued a general import and payments license which for a ll other goods guarantees the availability of foreign exchange when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declaration with his bank following the actual placing of the order. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made in i t ia l ly to authorized banks in Kinshasa. Applications are forwarded to the central bank after certification. Af ter approval of the application by the central bank, wh ich is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks without undue delay and remain va l id for customs clearance during a period of six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which valida­ tion by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is made available for a ll licensed imports, the validated license constituting at the same time an exchange license; for payments purposes, the license remains va l id as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the Belgian food aid program and the U. S. import support program and the agricultural aid program must be deposited w i th in 120 to 180 days after their shipment. Payments for Invisibles Po l icy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the central bank. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the central bank, wh ich is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis; the approval authority for other current payments has been delegated to the authorized banks. The Bank w i ll not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports payable on arrival, for insurance on imports. A ll other payments for services performed by nonresidents are in principle authorized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals, however, are restricted to 50 per cent of earnings after taxes. Transfers in respect of certain administrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms with foreign capital participation are transferable up to an amount proportionate to that participation. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency; for resident foreign nationals, however, the fare must not exceed the price of a return trip by a direct route to the country of their origin. Za i r ian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the duration of the journey, up 4 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Z A I RE to the equivalent of Z 400 a tr ip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to individual approval by the central bank. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic or foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports require individual licenses, with the excep­ tion of exports covered by general licenses. Banks are normally authorized to grant licenses to exporters who submit a declaration in wh ich they undertake to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in wh ich payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally va l id for three months; w i th in this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regula­ tions to take into account the time required for process­ ing abroad. F or mineral products, a provisional payment of about 70 per cent of the shipment's estimated value has to be surrendered w i th in 8 days after shipment. F or diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds from coffee must be surrendered within 45 days after ship­ ment. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of ship­ ment. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur­ rendered. There are no limitations on the import of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordinance- Law N o. 69-032 of June 26, 1969) is guaranteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. W i th minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by executive ordinance. When the local cur­ rency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be transferred in accordance with the terms of contracts that the central bank has endorsed to guaran­ tee the availability of exchange for such transfers. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro­ ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the per­ sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank; licenses for imports are not normally issued. Producers are required to sell 10 per cent of their production at the official price of US$35 an ounce to the central bank. Changes during 1971 July 1. The zai're was officially quoted in Paris. August 24. The zai're was repegged from the Belgian franc, the parity rate for which had been Z 1 = BF 100, to the U. S. dollar. The rate for the U. S. dollar was maintained at Z 1 = US$2. September 11. Zaire became a contracting party to the G A T T. September 22. Imports of articles of unhardened rub­ ber required a license. October 1. Fore ign nationals engaged in liberal pro­ fessions and earning more than Z 4,000 a year could transfer abroad only 50 per cent of their net earnings in excess of this amount; previously, they could trans­ fer their full net of tax earnings after deduction of a reasonable amount for local expenses. Foreign earners of wages and salaries could transfer only 50 per cent of their occupational earnings. November 26. Imports of sugar required a license. 24. A central rate of Z 1 = US$2 was established. Zai're would avail itself of wider margins. December 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kw a ch a. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar is K 1 = US$1 .40. The Bank of Zam­ b ia (the central bank) maintains fixed buying and sell­ ing rates for the U. S. dollar, the intervention currency; on December 31, 1971 these rates were K 0.71384 and K 0.71607 per US $ 1. The Bank also maintains fixed buying and selling rates for sterling. The authorized banks base their rates for other currencies on the fixed rates for the U. S. dollar and the current London mar­ ket rates for the currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the M in is ter of Finance. M u ch of the authority for approving nor­ mal current payments is in turn delegated to the com­ mercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The control of trade is the responsibility of the M in is ter of Trade and Industry, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling A rea and main­ tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United K ingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling A rea may be made in Zambian currency, in sterling, or in other Sterling A r ea currencies. Au thor ized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rho­ desia may be made in sterling or in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Accoun t, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling A rea except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an Ex ternal Accoun t, or in any currency freely exchange­ able for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. A ll permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account-Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the Un i ted K i n g­ dom, in U. S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and pro­ ceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U. S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held by residents of other parts of the Sterling A r ea are designated Sched­ uled A rea Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency, with authorized payments by residents, and with transfers from other Scheduled A r ea Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling A r ea currencies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled A r ea Accounts. Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling A r ea other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized pay­ ments from residents of the Sterling A r e a, with trans­ fers from other External Accounts, and with the pro­ ceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled A r ea Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency from authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to non­ residents. A ll debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of bal­ ances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, pro­ vided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account bal­ ances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is an open general license for imports from any source other than Rhodesia. The open general license contains two commodity lists, and individual licenses for goods not included in either list are issued freely. Imports of a few items in the first list do not require individual licenses, nor do any other goods, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any one month. The goods included in the first list are certain o il products, per­ sonal and household effects, samples, and diplomatic shipments. The goods included in the second list are clothing and uniforms of a military type and second­ hand clothing, gold, bags made of jute fiber, sugar, wheat flour, flick knives, accounting machines for ster­ l ing accounts, explosives, cement, fishing nets, twines, threads, yarns, bricks, certain radios and radiograms for domestic use, some cups, saucers, and plates, cheap blankets, matches, motor vehicles with four-wheel drive, some footwear, crown corks and stoppers, rubber tires and tubes, gasoline, aviation turbine fuel, paraffin for illumination, automotive gas o i l, and earthenware pipes. F or these goods, licenses are generally restricted. 4 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Z A M B IA M any commodities are imported by state enterprises ( I N D E C O, M I N D E C O, and F I N D E C O ). Import licensing aims in part at containing imports from Rho­ desia and lessening reliance on the Rhodesian transport routes. W i th a view to promoting alternative transport routes bypassing Rhodesia, certain goods are required to be imported v ia Dar es Salaam. This entails restric­ tion of imports of these goods from South A f r i c a, as goods of South A f r i c an origin cannot be discharged in D ar es Salaam .1 Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresi­ dent account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations normally is authorized automatic­ ally for a ll permitted imports, subject to the presenta­ tion of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zamb ia; special arrangements are in force, however, for pay­ ments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways, and pr ior exchange control approval is required to open commercial letters of credit for amounts in excess of K 5,000 covering imports that do not require an individual import license. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, a ll imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. F or other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of K 600 for each period of two calendar years, and K 10 a day for each ch i ld under 12 years of age, with a maximum of K 300 for two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. A p p l i­ cations for amounts exceeding the limits may in cer­ tain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional treat­ ment is justified. Applications for remittance abroad of part or a ll of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gen­ erally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable and that these services cannot be provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends may be transferred abroad up to 30 per cent of the equity capital or one half of net profits, whichever is 1 With effect from January 28, 1972, all dutiable goods became sub­ ject to an import surcharge of 5 per cent ad valorem. 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 492 smaller.3 The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia and recruited after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit to their country of domicile a third of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facilitate payments of small amounts, individuals are freely per­ mitted to remit abroad up to K 10 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities (including family maintenance). Travelers may not take out more than K 10 in Zam- bian currency and the equivalent of K 20 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports valued at over K 50 require a license; metals, however, are exported under general agreements with the mining companies. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as imple­ ments of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. F or most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank w i th in six months of the date of ship­ ment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except for trav­ elers from the Republic of Zaire, there is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers. The import of Zambian currency is limited to K 10 for each traveler. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but a ll borrowing outside Zambia requires the personal approval of the M in is ter of Finance. Outward transfers of capi­ tal, including those to other parts of the Sterling A r e a, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources out­ side Zambia. Lo c al borrowing by companies controlled 3 An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations after full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 2. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling A r e a, provided that the securities so acquired are regis­ tered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. A ll income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) M a r r i ed persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarr ied persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and sub­ sequent annual transfers of K 1,500. Persons who have been residents for longer than five years are normally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zamb ia; in addition to their emigration allowance, they may remit gratuities, compensation payments, and ter­ m inal benefits up to a maximum of K 8,000 on depar­ ture, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zam­ bia for numismatic purposes. W i th this exception, resi­ dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. G o l d- bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1971 January 28. Import restrictions on cotton textiles were intensified. March 7. Travelers leaving Zambia had to produce a tax clearance certificate when purchasing travel tickets. Exempt persons included foreign diplomats and foreign tourists who had visited Zambia for less than one month. Z A M B IA March 27. Remittances for prepaid air ticket advices required prior exchange control approval. March 29. The Exchange Con t rol (Amendment) A ct 1971 amended the Exchange Con trol A ct 1964 so as to provide for forfeiture or confiscation of the prop­ erty of a person who leaves Zambia for the purpose, or apparent purpose, of defeating the ends of justice. On June 17, the Exchange Con trol Regulations 1965 were amended accordingly by the Exchange Con t rol (Amend­ ment) Regulations 1971; these also empowered the Minister of Finance to prohibit any person in Zambia from transferring, dealing, or in any way parting with any property of any person. June 10. The Bank of Zambia ceased the issuance to banks of import licenses for Zambian currency pre­ sented for repatriation by banks in Rhodesia. July 26. It was announced that from January 1, 1972 foreign banks operating in Zambia would have to be incorporated locally. August 1. The foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports were required to be credited immediately to a Bank of Zambia account with a designated bank in London; previously they had to be repatriated within six months from the date of shipment. August 23. The existing parity relationship with ster­ ling of K 1 = <£ stg. 0.58% was maintained. As a result, the kwacha began to appreciate in terms of the U. S. dollar, the previous parity relationship for which had been K 1 = US$1 .40. The central bank continued to deal in sterling only, and at its pre-August 15 fixed buying and selling rates. 15. Statutory Instrument N o. 215 was issued, containing an open general license for imports from all sources; it replaced the existing open general license (Statutory Instrument N o. 404 of November 1, 1968). December 4. A restriction was introduced on remit­ tances of profits and dividends, and existing restrictions were intensified on travel allowances and on remittances of earnings by foreign nationals. Exchange control was tightened also in other ways. The main measures were: (1) Profits and dividends. Permission to remit profits and dividends was granted only when they did not exceed 30 per cent of the equity capital and provided that the 30 per cent did not exceed one half of net profits. (2) Payments for imports. Applications to open com­ mercial letters of credit for amounts in excess of K 5,000 covering the import into Zambia of goods not requiring an import license required exchange control approval. (3) Gifts. The maximum value of gifts in k ind not requiring special exchange control approval for export was reduced from <£ stg. 100 f.o.b. for each shipment to K 50 an applicant a calendar year. November 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Z A M B IA (4) Travel allowance. The basic travel allowance for persons who have been residents for 12 months or more was reduced from a maximum of K 900 for each period of two calendar years to a maximum of K 600 for each period of two calendar years. For persons who have been residents for less than a year, applications had to be referred to the exchange control authority. The allowance for business travel was reduced from K 40 per day for a maximum of 21 days in any calendar year to K 30 per day for a maximum of 15 days in any calendar year, subject to a l im it of two trips a year. The maximum period for which allowances for health travel could be granted was reduced from 45 days to 25 days. The basic travel and business travel allowances for Rhodesia also were reduced. (5) Advertising charges. A ll applications had to be submitted to the exchange control authorities. (6) Emigration. The allowances on departure and for subsequent annual transfers were reduced by 50 per cent. (7) Remittance of earnings. The remittable portion of the earnings of a ll foreign nationals employed on a contract basis and newly recruited after this date, whether from outside or within Zambia, was restricted to one third of earnings. The one-third l im it would also apply to contracts of foreign nationals renewed after this date. Previously, foreign nationals employed by mining companies were allowed to remit to their country of domicile 50 per cent of their annual earn­ ings on their first contracts and one third of earnings on second and subsequent contracts, except employees of copper companies, who were allowed a 50 per cent a l l- round remittance facility. Other foreign nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years were permitted without prior approval to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling A r ea coun­ tries and Rhodesia if they were recruited outside Zam­ bia and one third if recruited in Zambia; applications for remittances to other countries were usually approved provided that the applicant was normally resident out­ side the Sterling A r e a. These remittance facilities were available also to expatriates serving on pensionable terms of service or on contract after conversion from pensionable terms. (8) Gratuities, compensation payments, and termi­ (9) Personal maintenance nal benefits. Transfers were restricted to a maximum of K 8,000 on departure and a maximum of K 5,000 as an anniversary allowance (additional to the new emi­ gration allowances). Previously, transfers were per­ mitted freely upon the submission of necessary docu­ ments, although transfers outside the Sterling A r ea required exchange control approval. remittances. These were reduced from K 20 a month for each applicant to K 10 a month for each applicant, and authorized dealers no longer could approve applications for postal or money orders. December 6. The kwacha was repegged from sterling to the U. S. dollar, and at the pre-August 15 rate of K 1 = US$1 .40. December 6. Companies registered in Zambia and public sector agencies or departments were prohibited from maintaining foreign currency accounts in Zambia or elsewhere. December 6. A ll borrowing outside Zambia required the personal approval of the Minister of Finance. December 22. The par value of the kwacha was changed from 1.24414 to 1.14592 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U. S. dollar remained K 1 = US$1 .40. The effective parity rela­ tionship with sterling became approximately <£ stg. 1 = K 1.861. Subsequently, Zamb ia availed itself of wider margins. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A n a l y t i c al Append ix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P r in c ip al Features of Member (as at date of d ' n a h g i s t n a A l l e e g g i i r r a a n e g i t a n j s r t a i l a i s i r t a r i o d a b s I g i u m - L e x u m o b i i l ) v i a t ) s w a n a r i m a r i d n u i i m e r n o o t a d a n j n r t a l A i r f n a c R e j y l n o OS i l a n , R b u p e i l c o i l ) o m b i a o g n a , P p o e l e s ' R < s ) t a R i a c p ^ r u s o h a m y e < A < < < TO PQ « PQ « PQ PQ u u U u 6 U u U U Q 1. Article VIII status - - X X X - X X - - - - - X - - - - - - - X - - 2. Article XIV status X X - - - X - - X X X X X - X X X X X X X - X X 3. Agreed par value exists X - X X X X X X X X X X - X - X - X X X - X X - 4. Par value applied X - - X X X X - X - X X - - - X - - X - X X - 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value (a) fixed rate _ X (b) fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles X — X X _ _ X _ _ X _ X X X X _ X X X _ X 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) X - X - - - - - - X - - - - X X - X - X - X - - 8. More than one rate for imports X - X - - - - - - - - - - - X X - X - - - X - - 9. More than one rate for exports X - X 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans­ actions3 - X X - X X — — o X X X o - o X o X X X — X X • 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans­ actions 3,4 12. Prescription of currency _ X X X X X _ _ X X X X X _ X X X X X X X o X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X - X X X X X X X X 13. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with members X X 14. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with nonmembers X X - - X - - X - X - - - - - X X - - X i X- X X - 15. Import surcharges - - X - - - - X - - X - - - - - - - - - X - lx - - 16. Advance import deposits X - X - - - - - - - X - - - - - X X X 1 - 1- 1 1 - 1- 17. Surrender of export proceeds required X X X X - X - X X X X X X - X X X X X X X X X X 18. Part of larger monetary area5 - X - X - X - - X - - - X - X X X - - - • x |- X X 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 - - X X X X X X X X X - X - X X - X X X - X For key and footnotes, see page 500. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • C oun t r i e s' Restr ict ive Systems 1 coun t ry survey) 2 D n e m a r k D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r J | E p y g t I E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E t h i p o i a F i j i n F i l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G e r m y n a , F d e . R p e . o f G a n a h G r e c e e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o I e c l d n a I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l I o v r y C s a o t a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K a y n e X X x - X - X - X - X - - - - X - X - X - X - X X - X X - X - X X - X X X X X - X X X X X X - X X X - - - X X X X - - - - - X - X - X X - X X X X X - X - X - X X - X X X X X - X X X - X X - - - - - - X - - - - - - - X X X x X X X X X X X X x X - X X X X X X X X X X X X X - — X X — _ _ _ _ X X _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ X X X - - x - X X X X _ — _ o X _ X X X X X _ _ _ X X _ X X _ X _ _ _ _ X X X X _ X X X X X X X X X _ X X X X X X _ _ X X X X X X X X X X X X X - X X X X X X X X X X - X X X X X - - X X X X X X X X X X X - X X - x - X - X - - - - - - - X X - X - - - — — X — X X — X — — — — X — X - X X - - - - X - - - — X X - X X X X - X — X _ — — _ X X _ X X _ X _ _ _ _ _ _ X x - X X X X X - - X X - X - X - X - X - - - - X - - X 1 X - X - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X - - - - - - x x X X X X X X X X X - X X _ X - X X X X X _ _ X X X X X X - X - X X - X X _ X - X X X X X X X X - X X - - - X - - - X X X - X X X - - - X X X - X - X X X X - X - X - X X X X - X X X - X X For key and footnotes, see page 500. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P r in c ip al Features of Member (as at date of K h m e r R b u p e i l c K o r a e K u w a t i L o a s L n o n a b e L s e o t o h L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a R p e . M a l s a g a y R b u p e i l c M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M o r o c c o N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r 1. Article VIII status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 2. Article XIV status - - X - - - - - - - X - - - - X - - X X - X - X X - X X X X X X X - X X X X - X X - - X - X 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 4. Par value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value value value value value value value value value (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (a) fixed rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (b) fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles some or all invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans­ in respect of current trans­ actions3 actions3 - - - - X - - X X X X - - X X - X - X X X X X X X X - X - X X X X X - X - X X X X X X X X - - X X - - - X - - - - X - - X - X X - - - X - — - x X - o o 11. Restrictions exist on payments 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans­ in respect of capital trans­ a c t i o n s3£ a c t i o n s3£ X X _ _ o _ X _ X _ _ X o X _ X X _ _ X _ X X _ _ _ X _ X X X X X X X X _ X X X _ X _ X 12. Prescription of currency 12. Prescription of currency 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange­ 13. Bilateral payments arrange­ 13. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with members ments with members ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange­ 14. Bilateral payments arrange­ 14. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with nonmembers ments with nonmembers ments with nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 15. Import surcharges X X X - - X - X X X X X X X X - X X X - X - X - - - - X - - - - - - - - - - - X X - - - - X X - - X X - - - - - - - X - - - - X X X 16. Advance import deposits 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area5 18. Part of larger monetary area5 - X - - - X - - X X X - - - - - X - - - X - X X X X X - X - X - - X X X X X X X X - - X X - X X - X 19. Participants in regional 19. Participants in regional economic cooperation 6 economic cooperation 6 - - X - - X - X X X X X X X X - - - X - X - - X - - X X - X - X X X X I* x X - X x X x x For key and footnotes, see page 500. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C oun t r i e s' Restr ict ive Systems 1 coun t ry survey) 2 N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P t r a g u l w R a d n a S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n n a d u S u S i r a n m S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e y S i r n a A r b a R p e . T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k U a d n a g U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t e s 8 U e p p r V o t l a - X - - X - X - - - X - - X - - - - X - X - - - - - - - - X - - X X - X - X X - X - X X X - X X - X X - X X X X - X - X X X X X X X X X X - - X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X - X X X X X X - X X X X - - - X X X - X X X X X X X X X - X X - X X X X X X - — — _ X _ _ X _ _ _ _ X _ _ _ _ _ X _ _ _ X _ _ X _ _ _ _ X _ X - - - X - X - X - - - - - - - - - - - - - X - - - - - X - - - - - - - - - X - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X - - X - - - - - - - - - - X - - - - X - X - - - - - - - - - X _ o X X X X X X X X X X o X X o X X X _ X X o X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X - X - X X X X X - X X X X X X X X X X X X - X X X X X X - X X - _ X - X - - X - - X - - X - X X - - - X - - - - X X - - - - - - X - - X X - - X - - - X - - - - X - - X X - X X - - X X - - - - X - - - - -- - X - - - - - - - X X X X - - X - - - X - - - X - - - X X X - - X - X X X X X - X X X X X X X X X - X - - X X X X X X X X X - X X - X X - X X X X X - X - - - X - X X X - X - X - X - X X X X X - X X X X X - - X X X X X X X X X X X X - X For key and footnotes, see page 500. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P r i n c i p al Fea tures of M em b er C o u n t r i e s9 Res tr ic t ive Systems 1 (as at date of c oun t ry survey) 2 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans­ actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans­ actions 3,4 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange­ ments with nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 5 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 K ey and Footnotes X indicates that practice exists; — indicates that practice does not exist; and O indicates that position is undetermined. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1971. Where the date is a different one, this is indicated in a footnote. 3 Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 4 Resident-owned funds. 5 Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area. 6 Membership in, or association with, Common Organiza­ tion of African, Malagasy and Mauritian States, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, Arab Common Market, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Caribbean Free Trade Association, Cartagena Agreement, Central African Customs and Economic Union, Central American Common Market, Customs Union of West African States, East African Community, European Eco­ nomic Community, European Free Trade Association, Latin American Free Trade Association, Organization of Senegal River States, Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey), or the Customs Union between Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. 7 As of March 15, 1972. 8 As of May 8, 1972. 500 U r y a u g u V e u z e n e l a V i e - t N a m W s e t e r n S a m a o Y e m n e A r b a R p e . Y e m n e , P p o e . D e m . R p e . Y o g u s l v a i a Z a r i e Z a m b i a X X X - X X X X X X X - - - - X X X X X X _ _ X _ X _ _ _ X X _ X _ . _ _ _ X X X X - X X X X X X X o X X X X X X X o - - X - o X X X X X X X X - X - - X - X - - — - - - - - X - - X X - - - X - - - - - X X X - X - - X X X X o X - X X - - - X - X - - X X X - - X - - X - ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 