 E I G H T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND Eighteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1967 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 12, 1967 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Eighteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restric- tions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, N PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I I. Introduction II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions Bilateral Payments Arrangements Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits Measures Affecting Capital III. Regional Arrangements PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central Afr ican Republic Ceylon Chad '. vii Page 1 2 2 5 5 6 7 8 15 21 25 33 44 48 55 63 66 81 85 89 96 100 102 107 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS : Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo (Brazzaville) Congo, Democratic Republic of Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France Gabon Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya viii 121 134 142 153 158 165 171 175 180 188 192 : 202 206 209 217 233 238 244 253 262 268 273 277 278 280 285 290 300 309 317 322 328 333 343 347 353 360 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Liberia Libya Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Mali Mauritania Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Africa Spain Sudan Surinam Sweden CONTENTS ix 373 379 384 388 391 393 397 402 407 414 419 423 426 434 439 446 449 458 461 466 472 477 489 491 496 499 504 511 515 517 522 527 533 538 549 556 563 566 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia Analytical Appendix 573 578 586 593 598 602 610 618 628 636 644 667 674 678 684 687 696 705 712 X ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction World trade continued to increase strongly through 1966 although the rate of increase diminished somewhat during the course of the year. The value of exports f rom developed countries increased by about 10 per cent, which was slightly higher than the 9 per cent average annual increase over the last five years; exports from the less devel- oped countries increased more slowly, by about 6 per cent per annum, which was somewhat less than the 7 per cent average rate of increase registered by these countries over the past five years. In certain respects the expansion of trade was accompanied by an improvement in the international payments situation. There was a striking improvement concentrated mainly in the first half of 1966 in the over-all payments position of Australia and South Afr ica, which had been heavily in deficit in 1965; and there was some reduction in the surplus positions of France and Italy. Industrial countries, as a group, had a small deficit in their over-all balance of payments in 1966, while in 1965 they had a small surplus. The combined current account surplus of the industrial countries appears to have declined by abont US$500 mil- lion f rom 1965 to 1966. Although the current account balances of Ger- many, Japan, and the United Kingdom increased substantially, those of the United States, France, the Netherlands, and Belgium-Luxembourg declined. On capital account there was a very marked reduction of the deficit of the United States; this reduction, together with surpluses which developed in Belgium-Luxembourg, France, and the Netherlands during the period, had their counterpart in increased net over-all capital outflows from Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom and a reduction of the net capital flows into Germany, Switzerland, and the less developed countries. The less developed countries, as a group, were again in surplus, although to a lesser extent than in 1965. The combined surplus of the less developed countries tapered off during 1966, as the surplus in the payments balance of the less developed countries in Latin America, A f r ica, and the Middle East disappeared or was reversed. The pattern of changes in restrictive systems, like the pattern of payments developments described above, was mixed. A number of countries were in a position to relax and simplify their restrictive systems. A number of others felt compelled to tighten restrictions. The number of member countries of the Fund rose to 106 as Singa- pore and Guyana jo ined the organization in 1966 and Indonesia again became a member in February 1967. Since 1961 the number of members forma l ly accepting the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement has been gradually expanding. These members 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS have included both less developed and developed countries. By electing to accept formally the obligations of Article VIII, Denmark, Guyana, and Norway brought the number of such countries up to 30. These coun- tries were the source of over 75 per cent of world exports in 1966. Of the remaining members, 74 have chosen to avail themselves of the transi- tional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2, while two have not yet notified the Fund of their intentions. At the present time there are a number of members of the Fund which have not formally accepted the; obligations of Article VIII, but do not now apply measures of a type subject to Fund approval under Article VIII, Sections 2 and 3, or do not rely on such measures to any significant extent. A member availing itself of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV is authorized, for balance of payments reasons, to main- tain and to adapt to changing circumstances those restrictions on pay- ments and transfers for current international transactions which were in effect when the country became a member of the Fund. Like a, country that has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,. 3, and 4, a member availing itself of the transitional arrangements (Article XIV, Section 4) may not introduce new restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transac- tions or reimpose those that have been effectively eliminated with- out the prior approval of the Fund under Article VIII. Whether the adoption of a particular measure, in a country maintaining exchange restrictions, constitutes an adaptation of existing restrictions to chang- ing circumstances, or an exchange measure requiring prior approval, is a question that must be decided by the Fund on the facts of each case. What is an adaptation, as compared with an introduction, cannot ba- the subject of rigid definition, although there are useful general criteria,, such as the novelty of the measures adopted, whether they are of ma jor or minor consequence, and whether the basic nature of the restrictive system is changed. Accordingly, a member contemplating a change in its restrictive system that appears to raise this problem should consult the Fund prior to making the change. In this connection it should be noted that, as explained above, a member does not affect its existing obligations to consult and to obtain prior approval from the Fund by not accepting formally the obligations of Article VIII. II, Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions During the period under review further progress was made by many countries in the liberalization of current transactions and by a few 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES countries in the reduction of commercial and financial arrears. Relaxa- tion of restrictions in most cases applied to trade; in some countries there was also liberalization with respect to invisibles. Yugoslavia introduced a ma jor revision of its trade and payments system at the beginning of 1967 and has initiated steps to reduce its reliance on bilateral trade and payments arrangements; this took on greater significance because economic decision making within Yugo- slavia has been decentralized further and made more responsive to market forces. India, by measures associated with devaluation, carried out a ma jor simplification of export promotion measures and a substan- tial relaxation of restrictions on imports. Brazil took a series of steps during 1966 to reduce the scope of its severely restrictive "Special Category" for imports, and completely eliminated this category in 1967; it also substantially reduced the over-all level of tariffs through adoption of new tariff schedules early in 1967. In conjunction with a substantial adjustment in the exchange rate in March 1967, Argentina eliminated virtually all restrictions on payments; at the same time, a new tariff schedule providing for a considerable reduction in duties and a simplification of the tariff structure was adopted, and nearly all import prohibitions were eliminated. France shifted its exchange control to a "negative list" basis. As a result, all transactions are to be free except those specified as requiring approval. Moreover, a number of remaining restrictions were eliminated, among which were the surrender requirements for export proceeds and the controls over the import and export of gold. Restrictions on imports were relaxed in other countries, including Austria, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Korea, Morocco, Rwanda, South Afr ica, and Uruguay. Progress in working off commercial and financial arrears occurred in several countries; particularly noteworthy were the starts made by Ghana and Indonesia. Other relaxations with respect to trade occurred within the context of regional arrangements. The liberaliza- tion taking place within the European Economic Community (EEC), the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other regional arrangements is summarized in Section III below. Some of the countries involved went beyond their commitments under regional arrangements and extended regional reductions in tariffs or quantitative restrictions to their trade with third countries. Colombia and Pakistan, each having progressively liberalized through most of the year, reimposed import restrictions near the end of the year; Colombia, however, introduced new regulations in March 1967, which would permit a measure of liberalization of imports. New Zealand and the Sudan tightened their import restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Some of the less developed countries, including 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Malaysia, Singapore, and Venezuela, increased the use of quantitative restrictions for protective purposes. Countries which fe lt constained by persistent balance of payments pres- sures to maintain severe restrictions throughout the period included Ceylon, Ghana, Indonesia, and the United Arab Republic. Following a unilateral declaration of independence by Rhodesia in 1965, a large number of countries introduced or tightened their trade and payments restrictions on transactions with Rhodesia. The first series of such actions took place near the end of 1965; a second series took place a year later. The United Nations Security Council in 1966 imposed selective mandatory sanctions on Rhodesia.1 Action to reduce import discrimination against Japan was taken by Austria, France, Germany, Guyana, Kenya, Nigeria, Portugal, Spain, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, and the United Kingdom. A f r ican countries that are part of the French Franc Area continued the process of extend- ing to all EEC countries preferen t ial market access former ly extended only to France. This access was granted on the basis of the reciprocity provided for in the Association Agreement. Somewhat similar arrange- ments were made between the EEC and other A f r ican countries. Den- mark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom extended the liberalization of quantitative restrictions, applicable to multilateral trading areas, at least in part to state trading countries of Eastern Europe or to Mainland China. In addition, a num- ber of Fund members strengthened their commercial relations with state trading countries in other ways, for example, through licensing arrangements and export credit facilities. Some countries took fur ther action to apply import restrictions on textiles to additional products and to sources not previously restricted. These actions limited access to markets for cotton textile exports f rom a number of the less developed countries. Restrictions on payments for invisibles were relaxed to some extent by Ceylon, Chile, Japan, Korea, South A f r ica, and Yugoslavia, and were virtually eliminated by Argentina and Thailand. Controls over payments for invisibles were made generally more restrictive, however, by Laos, New Zealand, the Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. Restrictions on exchange for travel were introduced by the United Kingdom and were intensified by the Dominican Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Iraq, New Zealand, and the Sudan. Colombia imposed a tax on travel and Chile increased its travel tax. 1 Resolution.232 (1966),December 16,1966. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Bilateral Payments Arrangements A number of countries concluded new bilateral payments agree- ments and many existing agreements were renewed. Nevertheless, there was general progress during 1966 in easing discrimination associated with bilateral payments agreements. The number of agreements which were terminated substantially exceeded the number of new agreements concluded.2 Furthermore, some agreements were amended to provide for at least partial settlement in convertible currencies at regular short-term intervals. In other cases, trade settlements were placed on a nominal convertible currency basis, but in fact still took place under reciprocal credit arrangements between the central banks of the partner countries concerned. In certain instances agreements exerted some influence even a f ter their termination, as public entities increased their imports f rom state trading countries in order to use up credit balances. The trade between the less developed countries and the state trading countries continued to be conducted, to a great extent^ on a bilateral payments basis. Ghana is in the process of reviewing its bilateral agreements, and this may lead to the termination or revision of some of these. Some agreements were terminated between members of the Fund, such as some of the Nordic countries, and state trading countries of Eastern Europe. Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates Systems including multiple currency practices or fluctuating rates continued in a number of countries, but simplification of complex sys- tems was accomplished in a few important cases. Brazil removed the last of its exchange taxes on nontrade payments, stamp taxes, and the requirement of guarantee deposits in connection with the purchase of foreign exchange. India, a f ter the devaluation, abolished a complex system of incentives for exporters in the fo rm of import entitlements or tax credit certificates, and introduced a simpler system involving either cash subsidies or export duties according to the competitiveness of various specified export commodities at the new exchange rate. It also eliminated a bonus scheme applicable to certain receipts from invisibles. Uruguay eliminated spreads between the rates in two exchange markets, thus achieving a single f ree market. Indonesia and 2 Countries which terminated one or more bilateral payments agreements include Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Japan, Korea, Morocco, Norway, Portugal, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkey, United Arab Repub- lic, Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia; those that concluded new agreements include Cambodia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Indonesia, Lebanon, Mexico, Philippines, Singapore, and United Arab Republic. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Viet-Nam simplified their exchange systems and reduced the effective spread of exchange rates. Chile effected some simplification in its sys- tem of dual exchange markets, surcharges, and advance deposit require- ments in 1967. Efforts to simplify the exchange rate structure of Colombia were sustained through most of 1966. Toward the end of the year, however, the free market was closed and transactions pre- viously effected through this market were subjected to tight control and had to be effected through the official market at the previous free market rate. This situation was reversed early in 1967 when Colombia took new steps toward simplification of the rate structure. Ecuador, by repeated adjustments in its application of import taxes and surcharges, advance deposit requirements, export charges, and the criteria of eligibility for its different exchange markets, increased the complexity of its exchange system substantially. Both in Ecuador and the Syrian Arab Republic spreads widened between the principal exchange rates and the rates in secondary exchange markets. Costa Rica ceased to make official exchange available for a number of pur- poses, with the result that the free market, which was previously unified with the official market, was reactivated; a substantial spread developed between the official and the free market rate. The Sudan introduced minor stamp duties at various ad valorem rates on most foreign payments but later in the year shifted to a system of specific duties payable upon application for exchange allocations. Somalia reduced the exchange tax applied to most foreign payments. The premiums paid in 1966 in the special capital market of the United Kingdom and the free market of Belgium increased. A sec- ondary market for exchange transactions involving securities was eliminated, however, in the Netherlands. Several of the A f r ican countries in the French Franc Area terminated a long-standing system of exchange retention by exporters for use in payment for imports otherwise restricted ("EFAC")- Retention facili- ties for exporters were also curtailed by Ecuador and Iran. Some countries, however, increased their reliance on complex export incentive schemes, and Ceylon introduced such schemes for the first time although only for a very small proportion of its total exports. Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits The United Kingdom and Ireland terminated their use of import surcharges during the second half of 1966. The Dominican Republic consolidated tar iffs and surcharges on agricultural and industrial equipment, introducing a un iform tax on imports of such goods. Chile absorbed its import surcharges into a new customs tar iff. The Sudan 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES introduced import surcharges, Ecuador and Peru applied new sur- charges, and the Dominican Republic and Paraguay increased sur- charges on selected import categories. Turkey increased its stamp duty. Advance deposit requirements were modified in a number of cases, being withdrawn by Greece in respect of imports for certain public service institutions, reduced by Chile, and revised repeatedly by Ecuador. A number of countries, including the Dominican Republic, Guyana, and Libya, introduced new deposit requirements or applied such requirements more broadly ( for some, the requirement related only to cash margins on letters of credit or to imports financed with suppliers' credits). Measures Affecting Capital France liberalized capital controls as part of a general re fo rm of its restrictive system, under which all exchange transactions were author- ized except those specifically retained under control. Without affec t ing the convertibility of the franc, the following capital transactions are subject to regulation. French direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in France have to be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which has the right to request their postpone- ment. Borrowing abroad by French firms other than banks has to be authorized. Foreign issues on the French capital market are subject to the same regime as French issues, namely, a date for the issue must be set with the agreement of the Treasury. As a result of the measures taken by France and the elimination by the Netherlands of its free market, payments on capital transactions now are virtually unre- stricted in all countries of the European Common Market, though they must take place through a free market in Belgium and Luxembourg in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. Switzerland abolished the remaining limitations on the investment of foreign funds in enterprises in Switzerland or in Swiss securities. Capital transactions to and f rom Switzerland are now virtually free again f rom controls. The United States maintained through 1966 its Interest Equaliza- tion Tax, and now proposes to continue the tax for a further period beyond the present expiry date in mid-1967, at the same time making the rate of tax flexible and increasing the maximum permissible rate. The United States also acted to continue and to intensify its program of voluntary restraint on foreign loans and investments. The United Kingdom introduced a program of voluntary restraint applying to direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area and to portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area. Japan introduced certain changes in the official accom- modation provided to importers and in the directives governing the 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS foreign assets and liabilities of commercial banks. Several less developed countries took steps to discourage the outflow of capital, especially by restricting or prohibiting investments in foreign mutual funds. III. Regional Arrangements On May 10-11, 1966 the six members of the European Economic Community (EEC) reached agreement on a definite date —July 1,1968 —by which the remaining intr a community duties on industrial products are to be abolished, the common external tar iff is to come into fu ll effect, and free circulation of practically all agricultural products is to be achieved. Thus, the customs union will be completed 18 months earlier than the final date laid down in the Treaty of Rome. At the same meeting, agreement was reached on the financing of the common agricultural policy up to the end of the transition period. At the beginning of 1966, internal duties on industrial products were reduced to 20 per cent of their 1957 levels; they are to be reduced by a fur ther 5 per cent by July 1, 1967 and are to be elimi- nated by July 1, 1968. On agricultural products, internal duties were reduced at the beginning of 1966 to 40 per cent (if liberalized) or to 35 per cent (if not liberalized) of their 1957 levels; for a few agricul- tural products duties on intra-EEC trade were eliminated late in 1966, but for most products the elimination is to be completed at various dates during 1967, or before the second half of 1968. A provi- sional 20 per cent reduction of the common external tar iff level, toward which national tar iff levels were to be aligned by stages, had been made for most commodities either in the 1960-61 GATT negotiations, or af ter July 1, 1963, in anticipation of reductions to be made later. In respect of commodities for which such 20 per cent reductions in the common external tariff level had not been agreed in GATT negotiations, a new approximation of the common external tariff levels was to take place by January 1, 1966. In fac t, the new approximation was delayed until July 1, 1966 and was confined to a list of commodities on which special treatment in the Kennedy Round negotiations was being sought by the EEC. Agreement was reached in January 1967 that all member states should, no later than July 1970, institute a value-added tax, generally comparable to the one already in effect in France, in lieu of turnover taxes now imposed. A date by which the rates of value-added tax must be brought to a un iform level is yet to be agreed upon. The Commission 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS of the EEC submitted to the Council a proposed third directive con- cerning the liberalization of capital movements. The Council of Ministers of the European Coal and Steel Com- munity agreed in February 1967 upon an arrangement to enable users of coking coal produced within the Community to compete on an equal footing with those using cheaper imported coking coal. There is to be a national subsidy on local production sold within the market of each member country, and a Community system of compensation for coking coal traded between member countries. The process of ratification, by national parliaments, of the Treaty signed on April 8, 1965 providing for the establishment of a single Council and a single Commission for the three European Communi- ties,3 was completed on October 25, 1966. The Treaty was not imple- mented in 1966, pending the selection of the President and Vice Presidents for the new Commission. An Association Agreement with Nigeria was signed on July 16, 1966 providing for a relationship similar to that previously established with 18 A f r ican and Malagasy states by the Yaounde Convention. The new Agreement, like the Yaounde Convention, would come up for renewal on May 31, 1969. Negotiations that had been initiated earlier looking toward the association of Austria, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Morocco, and Tunisia were active during 1966 for Austria and the East African countries. On October 4, 1966, Israel applied for associa- tion with the EEC, to begin at the expiration of the present trade agreement on July 1, 1967. Exploratory talks concerning possible association were carried out dur ing 1966 with a number of other governments. For nearly all industrial products, six 4 of the members of the Euro- pean Free Trade Association (EFTA), reduced their intraregional ta r i f fs to 20 per cent of their 1960 levels at the end of 1965, and then eliminated these tariffs and any applicable quota restrictions altogether at the end of 1966 (three years ahead of the schedule originally ag reed ). The seventh member, Portugal, at the end of 1966 reduced the ta r i f fs it applies to imports of a number of industrial products f rom EFTA partners from 70 per cent to 60 per cent of their 1960 levels; it has undertaken to eliminate these ta r i f fs and any quota restrictions on these commodities by 1980. Finland, an associate member, reduced tariffs on most industrial goods, at the end of 1966, f rom 20 per cent to 10 per cent of their 1960 levels and has undertaken to eliminate these 3 The European Economic Community, the European Coal and Steel Com- munity, and the European Atomic Energy Community. * Austria, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ta r i f fs by the end of 1967. There was also an EFTA decision to the effect that the provisions of the EFTA Agreement concerning public orders, bids, and tenders should be fully implemented f rom the begin- ning of 1967. The agreement of the United Kingdom and Ireland to establish a Free Trade Area became effective on July 1, 1966. To commodities covered by the agreement, the United Kingdom gave duty-free entry beginning on July 1, 1966, while Ireland took the first of a series of steps by which it is to eliminate its duties not later than July 1, 1975. Under the terms of the Free Trade Agreement concluded by Australia and New Zealand in 1965, tariffs applying to items constituting 60 per cent of the trade between the partners are to be eliminated. Of these tariffs, those not exceeding 5 per cent were eliminated at the beginning of 1966; those between 5 per cent and 10 per cent were cut in half at the beginning of 1966 and are to be eliminated at the beginning of 1968; and those exceeding 10 per cent were cut by one fifth at the beginning of 1966 and by similar cuts every two years will be eliminated by the beginning of 1974. Implementation of the Automotive Products Trade Agreement con- cluded in 1965 between Canada and the United States (supplemented by undertakings of the companies which assemble vehicles in Canada) proceeded rapidly during 1966. The process of ratification by the parliaments of Antigua, Barbados, and Guyana of the agreement negotiated in 1965 to establish a Carib- bean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA) was completed on Decem- ber 29, 1966. This agreement, providing for the eventual elimination of duties and quotas among members and for the harmonization of invest- ment incentives, is expected to become operative in 1967. Progress was made by the Central American Common Ma rke t5 in adding commodities to the list entitled to free circulation within the area, and only 82 items are still subject to duty or to import controls. During the year progress was also made toward the adoption and application of a Un iform Central American Customs Code. Mexico (which is not a party to the Treaty, but which participates in Central American clearings and in the financing of Central American regional development) indicated its willingness to extend tariff preferences to the Central American countries, but the Latin American Free Trade 5 Established under the provisions of the General Treaty for Central American Integration; participants are Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Association (LAFTA) would first have to approve the extension of such preferences by one of its members. In September 1966, Venezuela completed its adherence to the Treaty of the Latin American Free Trade Association. In December, Bolivia was accepted as the eleventh member of LAFTA ;6 the formalities concerning Bolivia's membership are expected to be completed during 1967. During the annual conference of the Association, the members agreed to adjust their National Lists for 1967 by extending tariff concessions on some 500 products, a somewhat smaller result than the concessions made on some 850 products for 1966. The multilateral clearing system agreed upon by the central banks of the LAFTA countries in 1965 went into effect in July 1966, with the central bank of Peru acting as agent. In its initial six months only Argentina, Mexico, Peru, Chile, Colombia, and Paraguay, which had agreed upon reciprocal lines of credit, participated in the clearings. It had appeared earlier that the use of these facilities might remain voluntary, but it has been made mandatory in some instances by prescription of currency. Only a limited portion of the reciprocal claims of these six countries in 1966 was presented for settlement through the LAFTA clearing system. On January 1, 1966 the Central Afr ican Economic and Customs Union (UDEAC) entered into force, providing for still closer integra- tion of a group of countries 7 already cooperating closely under previous arrangements. Planning for implementation of the Union, which calls for the unification of all import taxation including the import turnover tax, the unification of customs nomenclature, and exemptions from customs duty, continued through 1966. The Union agreement also calls for harmonization of investment codes and for consideration of a proposal for complete integration of the tax regimes of the member countries. In May 1966, a special commission, which was appointed to examine the working of the East Afr ican common market and Common Services Organization, submitted its report to the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. A d ra ft treaty is in preparation, based on the commission's recommendations. These recommendations call for the establishment of an East Afr ican Economic Community and Common Market. 6 The other members of LAFTA are Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. 7 Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Implementation of decisions, taken in 1965, to replace the common East Afr ican currency by new national currencies in each of the three constituent countries, began in the summer of 1966. On May 4, 1966 eight "East African" countries 8 signed a coopera- tion agreement providing for transitional arrangements, looking toward an eventual economic community. The Afro-Asiatic Council for Economic Cooperation established, early in 1967, a commission to make preparatory studies for a possible common market to include seven Asiatic and seven African countries.9 Implementation of the Arab Common Market continued.10 By suc- cessive reductions in 1966 and 1967 the import duties applied to trade among participating countries in goods covered by the agreement have been reduced, compared with the normal rates of duty, by 60 per cent for agricultural goods and by 30 per cent for industrial goods. India, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia agreed, in Decem- ber 1966, upon various initiatives toward closer economic cooperation among themselves and with other developing countries. In particular, they agreed upon an early meeting to negotiate an exchange of tariff preferences, which could be extended to other developing countries offering mutual benefits. 8 Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia signed the agreement; Somalia and Sudan participated in the discussion but did not sign. 9 Mainland China, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Pakistan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Libya, Morocco, and United Arab Republic. 10 Participants are Iraq, Jordan, Syrian Arab Republic, and United Arab Republic. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the mem- ber countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange systems of two other countries which were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1966. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant develop- ments which took place early in 1967. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes during 1966" may include references to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as ma jor revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in draf t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1966 and, for a few countries, the early months of 1967. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, further details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1966, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded pay- ments agreements with other countries or monetary areas, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and from such non- resident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional require- ments imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive appli- cation of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EXPLANATORY NOTE TO COUNTRY SURVEYS Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licens- ing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of fore ign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for most coun- tries having a multiple currency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective at the end of December 1966 are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at d ifferent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1966, the more significant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1966 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1967 are indicated at the end of the survey or in footnotes to the text. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani or Af 45.00 = US$1. The Afghan is tan Bank (Da Afghanistan Bank, the central bank) charges commissions ranging from %0 of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karakul, wool, and cotton, and to 30 per cent of foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in afghanis of foreign experts. The official sell- ing rate applies to foreign exchange payments by the Government. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Subject to possible day-to-day deviations, the Afghan is tan Bank maintains its f ree market rate within Af 2 per US$1 either side of the f ree market rate quoted in the bazaar. On Decem- ber 31,1966, the f ree market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 74.25 buying, Af 74.75 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 76.75 buying, Af 77.25 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of rela- tively large companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral trade and payments agreements must be made in the foreign currencies speci- fied in the agreements.1 The proceeds f rom exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammuni- tion) are prohibited for social or security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agricultural 1 These countries are Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments agreement with India under which trade in certain commodities is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. In general, there are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Some of the bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas for commodities to be traded, and the Government exercises control to ensure that trade conforms with the commitments undertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with these countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for repayment of government loans. Imports of certain nonessential consumer goods from Japan are only permitted if equivalent Afghan goods are exported to Japan. Exchange is provided at the official rate for certain imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a local currency deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. The Afghanistan Bank is author- ized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles and payments to foreigners on government contract in Afghanistan are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agree- ment countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries from which payments will be received in convertible currencies. Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate. Surrender requirements are also main- tained for the proceeds of some other exports to bilateral agreement countries. With this exception, the proceeds of all exports other than karakul, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the currency in which they accrue, may be sold at free market rates or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Wool is subject to an export tax of 15.56 per cent. Cotton and cotton- seed are subject to an export tax of 24.44 per cent when sold to bilateral countries and 17.11 per cent when sold to other countries. Walnuts are subject to an export tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in afghanis of foreign experts must be surrendered at the official rate. Receipts from foreign embassies, lega- tions, and other foreign official agencies must be surrendered to the Afghanistan Bank at its free market buying rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at f ree market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in A fghan bank- notes not exceeding Af 500. Capital All foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval, which is granted readily if the investment is deemed conducive to the pros- perity and economic and technical advancement of the country. The Law Encouraging the Investment of Private Foreign Capital in Afghan- istan (November 18,1958) provides that, beginning five years after the date of the investment, registered capital may be repatriated through an authorized bank at the free rate in annual installments not exceeding one fifth of the amount invested. It also provides that ten years after the date of the investment the entire registered capital may be repatri- ated at the f ree rate at any time. The annual repatriation of profits up to 15 per cent of registered capital (under the 1958 law or an earlier one) is guaranteed and may take place through an authorized bank at its free rate. Changes during 1966 March 9. A sliding-scale exchange tax was introduced on export proceeds from karakul, to become effective whenever the price a skin exceeded US$8.24. August 8. The sliding-scale exchange tax on export proceeds f rom karakul was repealed. August 15. The exchange taxes on export proceeds from cotton and cottonseed of 28.89 per cent for exports to bilateral countries and 21.56 per cent for exports to other countries were replaced by export taxes of 24.44 per -cent for exports to bilateral countries and 17.11 per cent to other countries; these export taxes were applicable to the 1966 cotton crop. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN August 15. The exchange tax on wool exports of 15.56 per cent was replaced by an export tax of 15.56 per cent. August 15. Proceeds from exports of sesame seed, linseed, and wal- nuts to bilateral countries, which had been subject to a requirement that 50 per cent be surrendered at the off ic ial rate and 50 per cent at the free market rate, became subject to fu ll surrender at the free market rate. August 15. An export tax of 9.5 per cent was imposed on walnuts. September 1. Exporters of sesame seed, linseed, and walnuts to bilateral countries were assured the right to repurchase surrendered exchange proceeds upon payment of bank commissions. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar, which is at par with the French franc, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals at par in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area * are fixed by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these currencies. The exchange rates applicable to "agreement dollars77 are those for the U.S. dollar in the Paris market. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over exchange con- trol. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execu- tion and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, a number of banks have been given authority to carry out much of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for all commod- ities are issued on the advice of the competent ministry by the Ministry of Commerce. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Service des Alcools, and certain professional associations (groupements professionnels) have a monopoly over the import of certain commodities. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Algeria is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Some of these accounts are denominated in 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and TLS. dollars. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Algerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars. Algeria has signed payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Mali, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are usually made in French francs, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regula- tions pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments f rom any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization f rom the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies; with proceeds f rom the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc A rea; with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts; and with payments for imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area (including A lge r ia ); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authori- zation, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20,1963 in the account of the person concerned; with proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the inter- mediary of a notary public; with proceeds accruing from the sale of stocks and other securities and from any income, amortization, and redemption in respect of securities, provided that the transactions are made through the intermediary of a bank; and with any other pay- 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA ments, up to DA 1;000. These accounts may be debited freely for all payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; balances of less than DA 5,000 may, subject to certain conditions, be transferred to other parts of the French Franc Area. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments All imports from bilateral payments agreement countries require a license. A number of specified imports, listed under some 200 tariff headings, subheadings, or their parts, from all other countries are prohibited or are subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure; the items include such commodities as butter, cattle, cement, cereals, clothing, coffee, fish, hides and skins, margarine, matches, meat, melons, milk, phosphates, sheep, soap, sugar, tea, tobacco, tomatoes, vegetables, wine, and passenger cars and other motor vehicles. The Government has the monopoly over the importation of some of these items through its Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), or the Service des Alcools, while some of the other items may as a rule be imported only by profes- sional associations (groupement professional des produits laitiers or GAIRLAC, groupement professionnel des bois or BOIMEX, groupe- ment professionnel de la chaussure or GIAC, groupement professionnel pour les textiles or GITEXTAL, groupement professionnel des cuirs et peaux or GICP, and groupement professionnel d'achat de I'industrie textile or GADIT). Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives require an import license from the Ministry of the Interior ( for civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense ( for muni- tions and explosives). All other imports from countries with which Algeria does not maintain bilateral payments agreements may be made freely. Imports that are not liberalized are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program comprises quotas for the French Franc Area, each payments agreement country, and the convertibility area, i.e., all other countries combined. In addition, there are annual quotas for imports from France of a few specified commodities. Liberalized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs when imported from a 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA country with which no payments agreement is in force. Most liberalized imports whose value exceeds this figure are admitted on the basis of a declaration completed by the importer, but some require an administra- tive visa, which is stamped on an import attestation. Imports exceeding DA 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment has to be made before the goods reach Algeria, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Imports "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any kind, from the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of National Economy if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declaration procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been registered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange f rom the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, a f ter having domiciled (registered) the import, open a documentary import credit payable upon presenta- tion of the shipping documents. Goods normally subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels and without an import license, provided that the value of the shipments do not exceed DA 60 for each shipment and DA 240 a year for the same addressee. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, and (4) payments relating to government transactions with foreign com- panies. For other invisibles, the granting of exchange must be author- ized by the Central Bank. All insurance must be concluded with Algerian companies. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA or married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence from A lger ia). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 700 a person a year (DA 350 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents; for travel by means other than air or sea, the allocation is DA 50 a person a year for adults. Furthermore, residents traveling by air or sea to a country within the French Franc Area are entitled to an allocation, in the currency of the country of destination, equivalent to DA 500 a person a trip, on presentation of travel documents certified by the authorized intermediary; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,200 a person; the allocation can be taken up in the fo rm of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in bank- notes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment are prohibited. All exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements and some exports to all other countries require licenses. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 90 days. Af ter customs clearance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only af ter authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authori- 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA zation by the Central Bank, and registration must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, including those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90-day credit and must thereafter be collected within 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make authorized payments abroad within three months from the date of their receipt. Companies holding mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria 50 per cent of the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons. Certain percentages of the proceeds from exports may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts. Exporters to the French Franc Area may retain 5 per cent of their export proceeds (up to DA 20,000 per export transaction), while those to the con- vertibility area (i.e., all other countries except those with which payments agreements are in force) may retain 12 per cent if they hold export cards, and 8 per cent in all other instances. EFAC accounts are denominated in dinars and are held with the bank at which the export is registered. Certain payments may be made f rom these accounts without prior approval by the Central Bank. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Amounts exceeding DA 500 that are due from nonresidents in payment for services must be collected and, if not used to make authorized payments abroad, must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of receipt. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Travelers may bring in Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. Decree-Law No. 63-277 of July 26,1963 established a code for foreign investments in Algeria made after July 1,1962. Such investments could be undertaken to establish new, or to extend existing, enterprises, pro- vided that such enterprises (1) were recognized by the authorities as having economic priority in accordance with programs prepared by the Government, (2) constituted a program of investment of at least DA 5 million, to be carried out in three years, and (3) gave rise to the 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA permanent employment of a specified minimum number of Algerian nationals. Such approved enterprises (entreprises agreees) benefited from certain advantages in respect of fiscal charges and other taxes. Moreover, subject to the fulfillment of certain other conditions (such as the effect that the investment would have on related economic activi- ties and the volume of production intended for expor t), additional privileges relating to certain taxes were accorded to the approved enterprises. The transfer abroad of part of the profits from, as well as part of the proceeds from the liquidation of, such investments could be authorized by the Central Bank in accordance with the guarantees provided for in the decree. Additional benefits could be accorded to enterprises covered by a special agreement (entreprises convention- nees); these privileges included a guarantee of stability of fiscal charges for up to 15 years. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Decree-Law No. 66-284 of September 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area. Changes during 1966 During the period under review, a number of imports in addition to those mentioned below were added to the list of those that were subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure. February 4- The establishment of the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED) was announced. It was granted a monopoly over the import, export, and distribution of books and periodicals. It started operating on August 19. March 29. Imports of mutton required an individual license and became subject to quota. April 18. The import of industrial tallow for soap manufac ture was reserved for the Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO). May 6. Goods normally subject to import license and quota restric- tions could be freely imported in small parcels and without an import license, provided that the value of the shipments did not exceed DA 500 each and that the value of shipments to the same addressee did not 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA exceed DA 2,000 during a 12-month period. For specified garments, the maximum values were DA 50 a shipment and DA 200 a year. May 10. All mines belonging to foreign companies and all real estate abandoned by foreign nationals were nationalized. May 28. All insurance operations became a state monopoly. July 1. The value of imports that was free of individual licensing (see May 6, above) was reduced f rom DA 2,000 a year a recipient and DA 500 for a single shipment to DA 240 a year and DA 60 a shipment. September 15. A new Investment Code was published. The provisions of the Investment Code of July 27, 1963 were revoked. November 2. Raw cotton and cotton linters were included in the list of imports subject to individual licensing and quota restriction. November 10. Certain exchange allocations for travel were revised. December 14. Residents could no longer transfer freely, through postal channels, up to DA 100 a person a month for any purpose to any country. December 16. The import of mineral water, f ru it juices, and a large number of foodstuffs was reserved for the Office National de Com- mercialisation. December 16. The exchange allocation for residents traveling by air or sea to any destination (including countries within the French Franc Area) was reduced to DA 700 a year for adults and to DA 350 a year for children under 15. For travel by means other than air or sea, the allocation was fixed at DA 50 a year for adults. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was estab- lished by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. On March 13, 1967, the spot exchange rate was established at M$N 350 buying and selling per US$1; the Central Bank of Argentina dealt at a rate which it quoted daily and which could move up to 1 per cent either side of M$N 350 per US$1. From the same date, funds could be moved abroad freely and the banks could freely accept deposits in foreign currency. Most import restrictions were removed, and all export sub- sidies were eliminated. Import levies (recargos) were reduced sharply. Export taxes of 16, 20, or 25 per cent were applied to certain com- modities. The position on December 31,1966, however, was as described below. All exchange transactions take place in the single exchange market, in which the selling rate on December 29, 1966 was M$N 247.30 per US$1. The Central Bank operates in the exchange market by buying and selling foreign exchange to maintain the U.S. dollar rate within certain limits; on December 31, 1966, these limits were M$N 245 buying, and M$N 255 selling, per US$1. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between indi- viduals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at freely negotiated exchange rates. Forward exchange purchases by the public, however, are restricted to import payments made under a documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee (aval), and require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days. Forward contracts concluded as part of a swap transaction and forward trans- actions among authorized banks are exempt f rom the 40 per cent deposit. The deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days f rom the date of their original maturity; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the de lay ). Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and insti- tutions authorized expressly for this purpose; purchases and sales of travel exchange may be made through authorized exchange dealers and agencies. The authority to make certain foreign payments has been delegated to the authorized institutions. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Prescription of Currency Payments between Argentina and Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Para- guay, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks con- cerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Transactions with other countries must be settled in converti- ble currencies or externally convertible European currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos in the name of non- resident correspondent banks. The accounts may be credited with the counterpart of convertible foreign exchange negotiated in the exchange market and with peso amounts that are transferable abroad. Balances in these accounts may be used to make payments in Argentina or they may be reconverted into foreign exchange. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are generally free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the single exchange mar- ket. Some import payments, however, require the specific approval of the Central Bank. Goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Imports of a number of nonessential or luxury goods are temporarily prohibited; these include certain foodstuffs, beverages, textiles, and clothing. All imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent on the freight charges. Most imports are subject to a single import levy (recargo unico), in lieu of the import duties and surcharges in force prior to December 1, 1965; there are different situations in which this levy is, for the same com- modity, applicable at a rate of nil, 10 per cent, 90 per cent, or 100 per cent. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of 1% per cent payable in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or %o per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products (the taxes on logs and sawmill products amount to M$N 2 and M$N 8, respectively, per square meter by one inch, for imports from LAFTA countries); and taxes ranging from M$N 200 to M$N 2,000 a ton on imports of iron and steel. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Prior to the introduction of the single import levy, imports were grouped in lists according to their essentiality and domestic production. Surcharges were established for these lists, independently of the customs duties payable in accordance with the Schedule of Valuations. Imports covered by various industrial promotion measures do not pay the single import levy but continue to be subject to the import sur- charges fixed in the relative decrees and amending legislation, and to a 5 per cent import tax calculated on the value on which the sur- charges were levied. These are mainly imports for the automobile industry, for the engine industry, for the tractor industry, and for the textile machine industry. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the peso equivalent of the c. & f. value is required on many imports from all sources; goods imported from LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists (including the special lists for Ecuador and Paraguay), and certain imports from Bolivia also are exempt. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate in the exchange market. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be undertaken: opening a letter of credit; with- drawing shipping documents from the intermediary bank; purchasing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is refunded after 180 days, provided that the goods have been cleared through customs. About 80 per cent of total imports are exempt from advance deposits. The exemptions include the following: gold bullion, capital goods, vegetable seeds, pedigree animals, certain chemicals, fertilizers, pesti- cides, raw tobacco, and various fue ls; imports by certain nonprofit institutions; electronic valves specified in a LAFTA "complementarity agreement"; drugs and medicines; imports for veterinary or phyto- pathological purposes; imports by official agencies; raw materials for specified enterprises or firms; road construction machinery; airplane engines and parts for private civil aviation; imports by the ship- building industry; imports of certain materials by the iron and steel industry; imports by the Mixed Iron and Steel Company (SOMISA) and the Greater Buenos Aires Electrical Service Company (SEGBA); and imports by electrical cooperatives and the Italo-Argentine Elec- tricity Company (CIAE). To prevent unauthorized capital movements, all import payments require documentary evidence of the bona fide nature of the transac- tion. Some import payments require the specific approval of the Central Bank; these include payments by automobile manufacturers for imports of raw materials and spare parts, and payments for most imports of capital goods. Payments for specified capital goods valued 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA at over US$5,000, with the exception mainly of those imported from LAFTA countries, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least nine years af ter the date of ship- ment, depending on the total value of the goods. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased in the single exchange market, subject in a few cases noted above to prior approval of the Central Bank. Advance payments for imports are not permitted. Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for many categories of invisibles up to established limits, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of documentary evidence or sworn declarations of the bona fide nature of the transaction. Transfers in excess of the established limits require the authorization of the Central Bank. Exchange is granted up to US$25 a person a trip (US$400 during the summer season for adults or US$200 for persons under 18) for travel to Uruguay; up to US$300 a person a month for travel to Chile (US$150 for persons under 18); up to US$100 a person a month for travel to Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, and Peru; and up to US$400 a person a trip (US$200 for a person under 18) for travel to other countries. Exchange for medical treatment abroad is granted up to US$1,000 a person, as often as considered necessary by the Ministry of Social Assistance and Public Health. Remittances for students abroad are allowed up to US$300 for each student a month; in addition, up to US$200 may be transferred as a one-time installation allowance and up to US$50 every month for a student's w ife and each of his children. Family remittances are allowed up to M$N 10,000 a quarter for each beneficiary subject to certain conditions. Special exchange allowances exist for purchases of books and medicines and for subscriptions to newspapers and magazines by private individuals, and for purchases of books and subscriptions to newspapers and magazines by Chambers of Commerce and Industry and cultural organizations, other than public libraries; books and magazines of a scientific or technical nature are exempt f rom these limitations. Remittances of trade commissions are limited to 6 per cent of the c. & f. value of imports and 6 per cent of the f .o.b. value of exports, or 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of nontraditional exports. Transfers of profits, payments for current invisibles not listed above, and payments in excess of the limits listed above require the prior authorization of the Central Bank; examination of the applications has been delegated to the authorized banks. The export of gold coins or bullion and of domestic and foreign banknotes requires the prior approval of the Central Bank; travelers, 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA however, may take out freely in the fo rm of foreign banknotes 5 per cent of their travel allowance to Peru and neighboring countries other than Chile and Uruguay, and 10 per cent to other countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but minimum export prices are established for many agricultural and livestock exports. Exporters of most commodities are required to repatriate and sell in the single exchange market the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports within 10 working days af ter shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports of chilled meat to the United Kingdom in excess of their provi- sionally declared value, and proceeds f rom exports of newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, printed music, and books printed and published in Argentina must be surrendered within 10 days after collection. Proceeds f rom exports of petroleum products must be surrendered within 180 days after loading. Proceeds from nontraditional exports for which payment is received within 180 days af ter loading, and which are covered by an irrevocable documentary credit or by d ra f ts of similar duration, must be surrendered within 10 working days a f ter the due date. The proceeds of exports to Chile (except those of nontradi- tional exports) must be collected within 90 days of the bill of lading and surrendered within 10 working days af ter the due date. Exporters of malted barley and brewers7 malt must surrender the export proceeds within 45 days after shipment. The collection period for exports of quebracho extract is 120 days from the date of shipment for exports to other LAFTA countries, and 90 days for exports to other destinations. Some products are subject to retention taxes calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on which the National Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The retention tax is 20 per cent for linseed and linseed oil, horses, unprocessed hides, certain meat by-products, and some forestry products; 16 per cent for corn; 12 per cent for live cattle not for breeding; and 10 per cent for exports of certain agricultural and livestock products, including raw goat hides and unprocessed sheepskins, certain oilseeds, and vegetable oils. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its pay- ment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight charges. Other taxes on exports are levied as follows: a 10 per cent sales tax on exports of linseed oil, oilseeds, logs, coal, certain wood extracts; a 5 per cent sales tax on exports of sheepskins and wool; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products; a 1 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the financing of road construction in connection with agricultural develop- ment, on exports subject to retention taxes; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Grain Board, on certain agricultural products; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Secretariat of Public Works, on the export of certain other agricultural products; a 0.3 per cent statistical tax on exports subject to retention taxes; and a 5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Forestry Fund, on exports of tanning extracts (these are exempt, however, from all other charges and taxes). Surcharges, customs and additional duties, and other charges paid on imports of raw materials or other products incorporated in exported articles are returned to exporters. Moreover, exporters of specified nontraditional exports receive a rebate in compensation for domestic indirect taxes paid in the process of manufacture. There are three rates of rebate, 6 per cent, 12 per cent, and 18 per cent, according to the degree of manufac ture; the rebates are computed on the f.o.b. value of the export in question. The Central Bank has established a system of financial support for products not traditionally exported, based on the purchase of d ra f ts in foreign currency with periods of up to five years for capital goods, up to two and a half years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one year for other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles must be sold in the single exchange market within 30 days of receipt. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital transfers by nonresidents. Argentine industrial or commercial firms, however, require the authori- zation of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Remittances to repay foreign loans or to transfer the liquidation proceeds of foreign investments in Argentina are authorized without restriction, provided that no transfer of domestic capital is involved. The authorized institutions may, without special authorization, make transfers abroad in respect of foreign capital that entered the country for the purpose of extending loans in foreign exchange and was nego- tiated in the exchange market after April 13, 1964, and in respect of 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA interest on such capital. They may also transfer abroad, without prior authorization, certain income and amortization relating to certain capi- tal invested by foreigners in public or private securities. The securities must either have been deposited and/or administered by the authorized institutions for holders abroad prior to April 13, 1964, or they must have been acquired af ter this date with fresh funds from abroad that were negotiated in the exchange market. The maximum amount that may be so remitted without special authorization is M$N 10,000 for each nonresident holder in a fiscal year, for interest or dividends; for repayment of capital, the maximum is M$N 10,000 a foreign holder every six months. Moreover, the authorized institutions may freely make transfers abroad in respect of amortization of foreign capital entering the country af ter November 8, 1966 for investment purposes, provided that it was negotiated in the single exchange marke t; the authorization applies also to dividends, profits, interest, and other income from such investments. Outward capital movements by residents are restricted, but the Central Bank is willing to consider applications for the transfer abroad for investment purposes of funds owned by persons or firms domiciled in Argentina. The export of Argentine and foreign securities (shares and bonds) is subject to the authorization of the Central Bank, except in the following cases. Authorized banks may export domestic and foreign securities freely, provided that they have been purchased by a nonresident with funds that entered Argentina af ter April 13, 1964. Authorized banks may export resident-owned securities, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in the form of foreign exchange, or that the securities are exchanged abroad for other securities which are subsequently imported into Argentina. Changes during 1966 January 3. The exchange allowance for tourist travel to Uruguay was increased to US$400 a person a month (US$200 for persons under 18) for the period January 4 to March 17,1966. January 18. Banks were authorized to guarantee foreign exchange loans contracted in the period January 13, 1966 to February 28, 1966 in order to cancel other loans in foreign exchange. January 14. Authorized institutions were permitted to sell foreign exchange for repayments due on loans taken up in foreign exchange, provided that the proceeds of the loans had been sold in the Argentine exchange market after April 13,1964. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA January 21. Representatives7 commissions in respect of nontradi- tional exports could be transferred abroad up to 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value. February 11. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Chile. It entered into force on April 1,1966. February 15. The list of capital goods subject to the financial regime established by Central Bank Circular R.C. 196 of November 20, 1964 was revised according to the new customs nomenclature. March 16. Many fertilizers were exempted from import duties and other import taxes. March 23. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Chile. April 9. The Central Bank announced that the backlog of applica- tions for transfers in respect of current payments had been liquidated. Henceforth, all bona fide payments for imports, capital earnings, royalties, etc., would be approved automatically. April 13. Authorized institutions could sell forward exchange only for imports payable under documentary credits, bank collection, or bank guarantee; the transactions could not be undertaken before the appro- priate advance deposit had been made, which would be retained for 180 days. April 13. The allowance for the import by mail of books was estab- lished at US$100 every four months for libraries, other nonprofit insti- tutions, and Chambers of Commerce, and US$50 every four months for private persons. April 25. The retention tax on exports of beef, offa l, and tongue was reduced from 6 per cent to 3 per cent. May 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Paraguay. It entered into fo rce on June 1,1966. May 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Peru. May 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Colombia. May 13. Authorized institutions could grant loans in foreign exchange for the financing of nontraditional exports to countries with which Argentina had concluded reciprocal credit agreements. May 27. Special payments facilities were introduced for imports of commodities intended for the manufacture of nontraditional exports. May 28. A retention tax of 5 per cent was introduced on exports of wheat from the current crop; the retention tax on corn was increased from 6.5 per cent to 10 per cent for exports from the current crop. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA May SO. The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 202 buying, and M$N 205 selling, per US$1. May 80. The advance import deposit requirement was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the peso equivalent of the c. & f. value of the merchandise. May 81. The suspension of the 10 per cent sales tax on exports of wool and sheepskins was terminated; exports of these commodities made between June 1 and September 30,1966 became subject to a sales tax of 5 per cent. May 31. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreements with Colombia, Paraguay, and Peru. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effect. Within its framework, those of Argentina's reciprocal credit agreements that had not yet entered into fo rce came into operation. July 4- The exchange houses were informed that travel exchange relating to trips to or from countries with which reciprocal credit agreements had been concluded must be settled through the accounts established under those agreements. August 9. The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 215 buying, and M$N 218 selling, per US$1. August 9. A retention tax of 5 per cent was introduced on exports of greasy wool, the retention tax on corn was increased from 10 per cent to 16 per cent, and that on unprocessed sheepskins was raised f rom 10 per cent to 12 per cent. August 12. The collection period for the proceeds of exports to Chile other than nontraditional exports was reduced to 90 days from the date of the bill of lading. September 6. Subject to certain conditions, authorized institutions could transfer abroad funds constituting income from, or amortization of, capital invested in public and private securities. For each nonresi- dent owner, this authority was limited to M$N 10,000 in a fiscal year for interest and dividends and to M$N 10,000 every six months for amortization. September 30. The surrender period for the exchange proceeds from exports of quebracho extract was extended to 120 days from the date of shipment for exports to LAFTA countries, and to 90 days for exports to other countries. September 30. The 5 per cent retention tax on exports of greasy wool was abolished; the retention tax on exports of unprocessed sheep- skins was reduced from 12 per cent to 10 per cent. The validity of the 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 5 per cent sales tax on wool exports was extended to September 30, 1967. October 21. The exchange allowance for tourist travel to Chile was increased to US$300 a person a month (US$150 for persons under 18). October 24. The 5 per cent retention tax on wheat exports was abolished. October 81. Procedures were established for payments to and receipts from countries with which Argentina had concluded reciprocal credit agreements. October 31. The National Meat Board was empowered to authorize exports of live cattle to countries that are not members of LAFTA. November 7. The 3 per cent retention tax on exports of beef, o f fa l, and tongue was eliminated. November 8. The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 245 buying, and M$N 255 selling, per US$1. November 8. The authorized institutions could freely make transfers abroad in respect of amortization of foreign capital entering the country after November 8,1966 for investment purposes and negotiated in the single exchange market. They received similar authority for dividends, profits, interest, and other income on such foreign capital. The Central Bank announced that it was prepared to consider applications for the transfer abroad for investment purposes of funds owned by persons or firms domiciled in Argentina. November 21. Imports of certain chemicals and other products, including gold ingots and mohair, were exempted from advance deposits. December 5. Decree No. 4105 provided that machinery (except tractors) for agricultural, dairy, fishery, and forestry purposes could be imported without restriction and free of customs duty and other import taxes if not made domestically, subject to certification by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. December 19. The exchange allowance for tourist travel to Uruguay was increased to US$400 a person a month (US$200 for persons under 18) for the period December 21, 1966 to April 30, 1967. In addition to banks, exchange houses could sell foreign currency corresponding to this allowance; the latter were authorized for this purpose to purchase spot U.S. dollars from authorized institutions. December 23. Imports of raw tobacco, certain chemicals, stainless steel wire, and certain other items were exempted from advance deposits. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA December 26. Import duties on raw materials used by industry were reduced by 15 per cent. Further reductions of 5 per cent each were scheduled for March, June, and September 1967, adding up to an over-all cut of 30 per cent. December 29. The 10 per cent retention tax on the proceeds of exports of husked oats was abolished. December 29. Authorized institutions were informed that the instruc- tions of October 31 concerning countries with which reciprocal credit agreements were in force would from January 2, 1967 be fully applicable also to Paraguay. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Dollar or $A 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: $A 2.5000 buying, and $A 2.5100 selling, per £ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966 was US$1.1169 buying, and US$1.1103 selling, per $A 1. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1,1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area currency, or in Australian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Australia. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency from an appropriate nonresident account, or in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. Under current policy, the balance on a nonresident account may be withdrawn in convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency require- ments are observed. Import licenses are required for unwrought alumi- num and aluminum alloy, waste and scrap aluminum and aluminum alloy, used equipment (and parts therefor) for earth-moving, excavating, and handling of materials and polyethylene twine, rope, cordage, and cable. The licensing of these goods is a temporary measure applied while the Tariff Board conducts inquiries as to the needs of local industries affec ted. In accordance with a resolution of December 16, 1966 of the UN Security Council, selective mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia; the goods affected are tobacco, ferroalloys, chrome ores, and asbestos. Import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, for reasons of health, morals, or security; import controls are maintained over certain other goods where it is considered necessary to enforce quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but they are not restricted; the control operates solely to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on application, provided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for family maintenance and g if ts; however, applications for such transfers are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the normal limit for family maintenance are approved on application. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes within 6 months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Australia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Australian currency, without special authorization; of this amount, up to $A 4 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of copper and copper alloy scrap, and copper and copper alloy ingots, are prohibited, and exports of primary copper, refinery shapes, and copper rod are controlled. Exports to 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Rhodesia of arms and other military equipment are prohibited. The export of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a further condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from invisibles in other currencies do not have to be surrendered, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital are allowed for certain types of direct invest- ment overseas. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capital funds from abroad, but residents must obtain prior approval before borrowing foreign cur- rency or incurring a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents need not be sur- rendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and practically all transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Changes during 1966 January 1. A Free Trade Area Agreement with New Zealand came into force. January 14. Temporary protective quantitative restrictions were imposed on imports of polyethylene twine, rope, cordage, and cable pending an inquiry and report by the Tariff Board into the protective needs of the local industry. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA February 14- A new monetary unit, the Australian dollar, replaced the Australian pound at a rate of $A 1 = £A 0.50. The par value was established at $A 1 = US$1.12. April 12. Preferential tariff rates were introduced for selected imports from specified less developed countries. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0341796 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling or S 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are S 25.80 buying, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Austria and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1,1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments arrangements 2 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. "Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.SJSJI. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or ind iv idual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which require individual licenses. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted free ly if the funds belong to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely represent funds due to residents of countries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries f rom which they are imported; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.8 Nearly all imports from European OECD countries, their associated territories, and many other countries 4 3 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. *The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominican Repub- lic, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA are liberalized. Imports from Canada and the United States and its territories are liberalized to the same degree as those from the Euro- pean OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quantitative restriction when imported from Canada or the United States. Imports from three other countries 5 are treated in practically the same way as imports from European OECD countries. Many nonagricultural imports of Czechoslovak origin are admitted under an automatic licensing procedure. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (bar ter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, salt, spirits, and various breadstuffs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports from OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under com- pensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling pay- ments ; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains and other specified goods are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so-called Agricultural Marketing Laws. In addition to grains, the following groups of products are covered by Marketing Laws: milk and butter; cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products from these animals for human consumption; and certain fertilizers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 6 India, Israel, and Pakistan. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA exchange licenses.6 Payments for imports from, or originating in, countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments agreements require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Exceptions com- prise transactions concerning transport, films, and insurance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral pay- ments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight pay- ments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible cur- rencies may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. All payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due con- sideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and eln a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for payment; in such cases, the necessary exchange license is issued at the same time. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA the fulfillment of quotas established in accordance with such agree- ments, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments. Deposits in bilateral clearing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an individual payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are generally permitted, if made with convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances. For investments financed in other ways (imported Austrian currency, inconvertible currencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are permitted to obtain from nonresidents loans and credits as follows: (1) commercial credits for a period of up to one year; (2) loans with maturities of five years or more, to be used for investment purposes (e.g., for expansion of production equipment); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Austria in which the nonresidents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and (5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite merchandise transactions. The Austrian National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) pro- ceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and payments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA accruing f rom such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, to grant commercial or invest- ment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l i fe insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding para- graphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are con- cluded with residents of countries with which Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept f rom abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents, without restric- tion, foreign securities quota on fore ign stock exchanges and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions mu s t -be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Austrian external bonds), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Pay- ments for these purchases to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made in those cur- rencies, whereas payments to residents of countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Residents may sell securities deposited in accordance with the afore-mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible cur- rencies and through authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Changes during 1966 January 1. A new Amendment to the Foreign Trade Law entered into effect. One hundred and eighteen additional commodities no longer required an export license, regardless of destination. Many other com- modities no longer required an import license, regardless of origin; these included many commodities previously liberalized when origi- nating in GATT countries, such as passenger automobiles, raw coffee, cameras, outboard motors, and cosmetics. July 1. Most global import quotas were increased by 20 per cent. October L A protocol to the trade agreement with Yugoslavia was signed. It provided that Austria, with effect from January 1, 1967, would extend to Yugoslavia the import liberalization accorded to members of the GATT. A few imports of Yugoslav origin would be 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA subject to global quotas open to all GATT countries (except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and J ap an ). December 31. With minor exceptions, the industrial f ree trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association went into effec t. NOTE.—The following changes took place in 1967: January 1. A long-term trade agreement with Czechoslovakia went into effect. Austria hencefor th applied an automatic licensing procedure to many nonagricultural imports of Czechoslovak origin. January 1. Further commodities were freed from quantitative restric- tion when imported f rom and originating in GATT countries (except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and J ap an ). The principal remaining restric- tions on imports of industrial goods from such countries were global quotas for lignite, antibiotics, and motion-picture films. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG * Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc or BF 50.00 = US$1 and Lux F 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —the official and the free. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.2 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within off ic ial limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1; the rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Belgium- Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the off ic ial market. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible cur- rencies acquired through the f ree market may be sold in the official market, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On December 30, 1966, the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 50.45 buying, BF 50.47 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange markets may be used for settlements with so-called convertible area countries, which include all countries except those in the bilateral group.3 If receipts f rom bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the official market. Forward rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the con- vertible currencies. Any resident or nonresident, banks included, may deal freely in any currency in the f ree market. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. 1In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 8 The bilateral group countries are Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Un ion ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of January 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commission the authority to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the Licensing Offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appropriate exchange market or, where pay- ments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 3) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commercial expenses including insurance; List B covers settle- ments of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments, and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, l i fe insurance payments, fam i ly maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of invest- ments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxem- bourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, fo rwa rd covering of merchandise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. In dealing with countries in 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG the convertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible currencies received from transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs can also be settled through a Financial or a Convertible Account. All pay- ments to countries in the convertible area, and all receipts f rom such countries for transactions included in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Outward Payments A, B, and C Convertible D Convertible A, B, C, and D Bilateral Any Any Official or free Free Any Financial Bilateral * Inward Payments A a n dB Convertible Convertible Official Convertible C a n dD Convertible Convertible Other Official or free Free / Convertible } or Financial A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official Convertible or Bilateral * Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r anc accounts of nonresidents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may * Bilateral Account of the country concerned. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG be opened in the name of any nonresident.5 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the off ic ial market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of converti- ble currencies in the off ic ial market to authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the official or the f ree market. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for resi- dents in convertible area countries,6 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the f ree market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market and of convertible currencies in the off ic ial market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited free ly to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the f ree market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 3 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settle- ments with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the off ic ial market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, the Democratic Repub- lic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of sugar and tobacco of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bul- garia, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few imports from 6 Including civil servants of foreign nationality who are employed in the BLEU by specified international organizations. 6 Individuals resident in Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, or Rwanda are authorized to maintain "assimilated" resident accounts. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Luxembourg into Belgium and vice versa, and (3) a number of imports f rom all other countries.7 The imports for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and foods tuffs, and coal and kerosene. All other imports, which con- stitute about four fifths of total imports, are free of license and quanti- tative restriction. Only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many imports subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restric- tion. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, wine, olive oil, and specified fruits and vegetables. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). If the requirements are not fu lf i l led, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission. Exchange control approval is also required to make payments for imports more than three months before or after the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval of the central exchange con- trol authority is required. Payments to convertible area countries for all invisibles (including those in List D) may be made through the free market, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 3) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. 7 Some imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EEC countries. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exports and Export Proceeds The export to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, other military materiel, and oil and oil products is prohibited. Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few exports f rom Belgium to Luxembourg and vice versa, and (3) specified exports to all other countries.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notifica- tion of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months af ter the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with certain commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange marke t), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible cur- rencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the official or the free mar- ket. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D f rom convertible area countries may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the f ree market, by settlement in Belgian or 8 Some exports in the last group do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Luxembourg f rancs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, fam i ly main- tenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a f inanc ial character, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. In addition, incoming capital may be received in con- vertible currencies through the off ic ial market or in Belgian or Luxem- bourg f rancs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresi- dents are f ree, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. Inward payments for capital trans- actions with bilateral countries must be received in convertible cur- rencies through the off ic ial market or in Belgian f rancs through Bilateral Accounts; outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian f rancs through Bilateral Accounts. Changes during 1966 January 4- The import of sugar and tobacco of Rhodesian origin was prohibited, as was the export to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, other military material, and oil and oil products. January 7. The list of goods subject to import and export license was revised. Imports f rom and exports to the Netherlands of some com- modities, mainly textiles, were exempted f rom license. May 23. Certain items were deleted f rom the list of goods which could not without a special license be the object of transit operations. July 14- An Industrial Expansion Act was passed. It offered special benefits to new foreign and domestic investment in specified regions of Belgium. The first implementing orders were issued on February 21, 1967. October 26. Certain jute products no longer required an import license. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG November 1. Many of the remaining licensing requirements for imports from the Netherlands or from other EEC countries were abolished. Additional textiles required an individual license unless they were imported from the Netherlands and did not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. November 3. The proceeds in excess of BF 500,000 from amortization or redemption of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs and belonging to residents of convertible area countries could not with- out permission be credited to Convertible Accounts or transferred through the official exchange market unless such securities had been held by nonresidents at least six months prior to maturity. December 5. Restrictions were imposed on imports of certain cotton yarns and synthetic yarns. December 28. Imports of roasted coffee, unroasted coffee, liquid cof- fee, and instant coffee required a license. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1967: January 1. The accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs opened by foreign civil servants appointed to listed international organizations established in the BLEU, which were previously assimilated to resident accounts, were transformed into Convertible Nonresident Accounts. Consequently, exchange control approval no longer was required for the transfer through the official market of savings from salaries. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par va lue for the Boliviano was established by Bolivia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was established by virtue of Supreme Decree 4538 of December 15,1956. All exchange transactions are carried out in a f ree market, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since January 1959. On Janu- ary 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bolivian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the pub l ic sector, buying foreign exchange from the Government and the o f f ic ial enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COM IBOL ), and selling foreign exchange to the Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the Government and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Central Bank on December 31, 1966 was $b 11.875 buying, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. Transactions of the Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the foreign exchange dealers with the pub l ic take place at slightly different rates. All sales of fore ign exchange in the private sector are subject to a 2 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of National Economy. Private imports of certain com- modities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foods tu f fs, raw cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the f ree market, subject to the requirement that the commercial documents involved in the transaction are sub- mitted. Suppliers7 credits are subject to authorization by the Stabiliza- tion and Development Council (see section on Capital, be low). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles and capital transfers may be made freely through the free market. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. Exchange receipts from exports by official agencies are surrendered to the Central Bank at the free market rate, with the exception of the portion retained by COMIBOL for its own use. Proceeds f rom other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the f ree market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are f r ee of control and may be made through the free market; inward capital transfers also may be made through that market. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior authorization by the Stabilization and Development Council. The Government does not authorize, nor does the Monetary Department of the Central Bank grant guarantees to, new foreign suppliers' credits with terms of less than five years from the receipt of the corresponding imports or general foreign credits with terms of less than eight years from the date of disbursement. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of October 19, 1965, which guarantees the f ree convertibility and repa- triation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit f rom its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia (INPIBOL). Investments in petroleum and mining are gov- erned by the Petroleum Code and the Mining Code. Changes during 1966 September 20. A Stabilization and Development Council was estab- lished to replace the National Currency Stabilization Council, the National Economic Development Council, and the National Planning and Coordination Service. November 80. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank limited its guarantees to credits received by residents f rom off ic ial for- eign or international lending agencies and to foreign credits granted to the Government or official entities. All foreign credits, including sup- 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA pliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, required prior authorization by the Stabilization and Development Council. New foreign suppliers' credits with terms of less than five years f rom the receipt of the corresponding imports, or general foreign credits with terms of less than eight years f rom the date of disbursement, would not be authorized. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 1 Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was estab- lished by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. The existing exchange arrangements have grown out of three foreign exchange markets: (1) the market of the monetary authorities, in which the Bank of Brazil carries out exchange operations for the account of the Central Bank, (2) the market of the authorized banks, and (3) the "manual market" where banknotes and travelers checks are negotiated. However, the policies pursued by the authorities have in practice unified the three markets. The rates quoted by the various inter- mediaries remained within a narrow range of each other during 1966; the maximum spread did not exceed % of 1 per cent on the buying side or on the selling side. The Bank of Brazil intervenes in the exchange markets on behalf of the Central Bank of the Republic of B r a z i l2 whenever this is called for by the monetary authorities' policy of maintaining uniformity of exchange rate quotations. On December 31, 1966, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$2,200 and Cr$2,220 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks were Cr$2,200 buying, and Cr$2,220 selling, per US$1, and the rates in the "manual market" were Cr$2,200 buying, and Cr$2,210 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the dollar quotations for such currencies in international markets. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) A brokerage fee, certain other charges, and a stamp tax are levied on most exchange transactions in the f ree market. The combined cost of these charges and the tax, which, by law, are not to be included in the exchange rate quotations, is about Cr$26 per US$1 on each purchase 1This survey presents the position as at December 31, 1966. Early in 1967, however, major changes took place. On January 1, the stamp tax previously levied on most exchange transactions was eliminated. On February 9, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Brazil were changed from Cr$2,200 and Cr$2,220 per US$1 to Cr$2,700 and Cr$2,715>per US$1, respectively.^ On February 13, a new monetary unit, the "new cruzeiro," replaced the cruzeiro at a rate of 1 to 1,000, resulting in buying and selling rates of the Bank of Brazil of NCr$2.700 and NCr$2.715 per US$1, respectively. On March 1, all remaining import commodi- ties in the Special Category were transferred to the General Category; on the same date a new import tariff became effective, providing for considerable reduc- tions of customs duties. 2 On February 28, 1967, the name of the central bank was changed to the Central Bank of Brazil. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL or sale of foreign exchange at the prevailing market rate. Applied to the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities on December 31, 1966, the resultant effective rates were Cr$2,173 and Cr$2,246 per US$1, respectively. Transactions in the "manual market" are exempt f rom these charges and the stamp tax. On the buying side other effective rates result f rom the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports, (b) Pro- ceeds f rom exports of fresh and chilled beef from Central Brazil are subject to a contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contri- buiQao) of 30 per cent, (c) A 15 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (d) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. On the selling side, a different effective rate may arise from the arrangement whereby Petrobras (national petroleum agency) con- cludes, at the beginning of each calendar quarter, an "open foreign exchange contract" with the Bank of Brazil for estimated requirements during the corresponding calendar quarter of imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large proportion of all exchange transac- tions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Authorized banks must surrender to the Bank of Brazil (a) any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 at the close of each day; (b) 90 per cent of the exporter's portion of the exchange proceeds of coffee exports; and (c) those exchange proceeds from coffee exports corresponding to the "contribution quota." (2) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange proceeds from exports of petroleum on the basis of an agreement that grants it special facilities for imports of crude oil and petroleum by-products. (3) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts f rom these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government within the limits approved in the budget at the exchange rate prevailing on the date when a transaction is made. The Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertil- izers, and the requirements of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. More- over, the Bank of Brazil handles all exchange transactions in bilateral 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL currencies, either direct or by transferr ing exchange to authorized banks or vice versa. All f ree market transactions in fore ign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through author- ized banks. The banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other but transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are allowed, subject to certain conditions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of over-all foreign exchange policy. The control system is operated by the Exchange Control Sector of the Central Bank (FICAM) under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. The Central Bank's exchange opera- tions are handled by the Bank of B raz i l; the latter also organizes auctions of promessas de licenga (which entitle the holder to receive an import license for Special Category imports), and establishes the total value of promessas de licenga on the basis of criteria approved by the Central Bank. Pending the final transition of the administration of control to the Central Bank, government departments and public entities continue to present to the Bank of Brazil semiannual estimates of their needs for imports and service payments. In respect of petroleum, quarterly requirements are determined by the Petroleum Council. These estimates are reviewed by the Central Bank. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX) formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign A f f a i rs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues export and import licenses, when required, and verifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifications, and types in export and import operations that are subject to license. The Customs Policy Council decides on changes in customs duties or in their application, subject in some cases to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Council is also responsible for the allocation of import commodities between the General and the Special Category, subject to confirmation by the Ministry of Finance. The Sector for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) in the Central Bank is in charge of processing the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remit- 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL tance of income therefrom; it also approves the terms of foreign financ- ing for imports. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with pay- ments agreement countries are made through the relevant agreement accounts. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia,3 Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; in Danish kroner with Denmark; and in clearing sterling with Iceland and Mainland China. On the basis of provisions for the settlement with certain nonclearing countries of outstanding balances or transactions under bilateral agree- ments now terminated, a few payments with these countries are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Brazilian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Import procedures depend on whether the goods belong to the General Category or the Special Category. The commodities listed in the General Category are mainly raw materials, equipment goods, spare parts, and some essential goods not produced in Brazil in sufficient quantities. All other commodities are in the Special Category. (With the exception of wheat and onions, all imports from other LAFTA countries are in the General Category.) Secondhand goods classified in the General Category when new may be imported, and then are granted General Category treatment, if they are (1) certified to be in good operating condition, (2) not obsolete, (3) to be used by the importer himself, and (4) considered to contribute directly to domestic pro- ductive processes. Imports of new automobiles and recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 are prohibited. General Category imports are free of quantitative restriction. The administrative procedures for these imports are as follows: an importer must secure from CACEX an import certificate (guia de importaQdo) which is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price 8 With effect from February 1, 1967, payments with Czechoslovakia were put on a convertible currency basis. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL of the commodity as well as any other information CACEX may con- sider necessary. The import certificate entitles the importer to obtain a visa from the Brazilian consular authorities abroad which is required for the shipment of the goods. The import certificate is valid for 120 days. Prior to the clearance of the goods through customs, the importer must close an exchange contract with the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank for no more than 180 days. As a rule, foreign exchange is sold at present for up to 120 days. For exchange contracts closed at the Bank of Brazil the importer is normally required to provide a 100 per cent guarantee deposit. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection; the amount of such a deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for pay- ment of the foreign exchange concerned. Special Category imports are subject to global quotas. They repre- sent a minor proportion of total imports. Importers are required to obtain an import license f rom CACEX, and for this purpose they must purchase a promessa de licenga on a stock exchange, where promessas are offered in global amounts for auction. To obtain a visa f rom the Brazilian consular authorities abroad and to clear the goods through customs, importers must also obtain an "import certificate," which is issued by the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil, subject to the closing of an exchange contract with the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank. The procedure for the auction of the promessas de licenga is as follows: Each week the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil determines the amount to be offered at auction. Auctions are held weekly in 20 cities; about 30 per cent of the supply is reserved both for Rio de Janeiro and for Sao Paulo. The promessas are expressed in only two currencies, "free U.S. dollars" and "agreement dollars," and are offered in lots of US$100 and US$500. Within 3 business days, begin- ning 48 hours a f ter the date of the auction, a successful bidder must pay the price of the promessa to the Bank of Brazil. The promessa is valid for 30 days, and within this period the importer must close an exchange contract for the payment of the import. A promessa entitles the holder to obtain import licenses for a total value equal to the amount of the promessa. Promessas in agreement dollars are valid for imports from any bilateral payments agreement country, while pro- messas in free U.S. dollars are valid for imports f rom any other country. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports (petroleum and petroleum products, wheat, and imports with foreign financing). For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes quarterly "open foreign exchange contracts" with the Bank of Brazil. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL An "open contract" provides that during the calendar quarter actual exchange contracts may be closed up to a specified amount, at the exchange rate prevailing on the day when the "open contract" was concluded. The exchange contracts are entered into by Petrobras in accordance with the following arrangements made by the Bank of Braz i l: 30 per cent of the value of a shipment must be paid no later than 8 working days af ter the week in which the shipment has taken place, and the remaining 70 per cent within 110 days af ter the date of shipment; for imports of liquid gas the remaining 70 per cent is to be paid within 140 days of shipment, with an option for advance settle- ment. The Bank of Braz il charges an interest rate of 1 per cent a month on the balance outstanding during the 110 days or 140 days. A customs surcharge of 10 per cent of existing import duties is levied on all imports except those f rom LAFTA countries. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Braz i l, in practice, sells foreign exchange only for cur- rent invisibles related to those trade transactions for which it has closed an exchange contract and for certain nontrade transactions that have been given exemption f rom the normal payment of a financial charge. All other payments for current invisibles are made through the authorized banks. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange free ly up to the equiva- lent of US$500 for personal remittances abroad. Payments for other current invisibles, except those related to foreign capital, income therefrom, and royalties and technical assistance, are subject to the approval of FIG AM. For most current invisibles, FIG AM permits the sale of foreign exchange by authorized banks, either freely or up to certain limits. In principle, foreign exchange for other remittances (e.g., tourism) or for amounts in excess of the limits approved by FICAM may be acquired in the fo rm of fore ign banknotes in the "manual market" or, if the payment is of a personal nature (e.g., migrants7 remittances or fam i ly ma in tenance), the US$500 allowance, which is granted without limitation, may be used. The sale of tickets for international air travel is made against local currency upon presenta- tion of valid passports. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign invest- ments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Profit Remit- tance Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvest- ments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, be low ). Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registra- tion. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remit- tances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consump- tion, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. With the following exception, remittances are per- mitted freely in respect of royalties for the use of patents of inventions or of industrial and commercial trademarks, as well as in respect of technical, scientific, administrative, or similar assistance. Such remit- tances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary estab- lished in Brazil to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm. In order to eliminate the administrative barriers to remittances which had developed as a result of the large backlog of applications for registration of incoming capital, provision has been made for the issue of Certificates of Authorization for remittances under a guarantee bond (termo de responsabilidade) subscribed to by the interested party in advance of the completion of registration. This method of remitting in advance of registration is applicable to profits, dividends, interest, amortization, royalties, and payments for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance. In addition to signing the guarantee bond, the interested party must present to FIRCE the balance sheet showing the profits of the last fiscal year and, where applicable, a copy of the shareholders' decision authorizing the distribution of profits. If the transfers made under the above provision exceed the value specified in the Certificate of Registration that is ultimately issued, FIRCE will either make adjustment for the excess in the Certificate of Registration or will require the restitution of the excess amount transferred. Letters of credit opened for payment in inconvertible or "agreement" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must con ta in .a clause requiring that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of Brazil or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Under the provisions of Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966, exports, with only minor exceptions, are to be free of licensing. Accordingly, exports 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL will be grouped into the following three categories: (1) f ree exports, (2) exports subject to control, and (3) prohibited exports. The first category will include the large majority of exports. The second category will be limited to those goods that are considered to require control in the national interest. The commodities included in the third category will be exceptional cases regulated by specific laws. Until the adminis- trative procedures for the law's implementation are established, all exports continue to require licenses, with the exception of exports of coffee which are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound, f.o.b.) fixed f rom time to time by the Institute,4 minus US$0.02 per pound. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender without com- pensation a portion ("contribution quota") of their foreign exchange rece ip ts ;5 the cruzeiro equivalent of this portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribu- tion quota, exporters receive (1) payment of a fixed cruzeiro amount per b a g6 determined f rom time to time by the Brazilian Coffee Insti- tute and (2) payment of the full cruzeiro equivalent at the f ree market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the minimum regis- tration price. To the extent that the foreign price obtained by the exporter is lower than the minimum registration price, the cruzeiro payment to the exporter is reduced; the reduction is calculated at the prevailing selling rate. Thus, the effective exchange rate for coffee exports depends on (i) the cruzeiro payment per bag, ( i i) the minimum registration price, (iii) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars per pound ), and (iv) the free market rate. Based on payments per bag of coffee of Cr$48,000, Cr$46,000, Cr$39,200, and Cr$35,200 for d ifferent grades and ports of shipment, and corresponding minimum registration prices per pound of US$0.385, US$0.375, US$0.345, and US$0.330, respectively, prevailing on December 31, 1966, and on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the minimum registration price, the effective rates for proceeds f rom coffee exports on that date were Cr$945, Cr$929, Cr$861, and Cr$808 per US$1. 4 The minimum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 5 The amount of the contribution depends upon the applicable minimum registration price, the fixed cruzeiro amount paid per bag, and the current buying rate of the Bank of Brazil. 6 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Minimum registration prices for exports of the above grades of coffee against 90-day bills were slightly higher on December 31, 1966; the effective exchange rates applicable to coffee exports against such bills ranged between Cr$934 and Cr$799 per US$1, on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the minimum registration price. Under the provisions of various Resolutions 7 of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a foreign importer of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensa- tion f rom the Institute if, on specified dates within a specified period of time, the price of Santos 4 coffee ex dock New York is reduced, or the indicator price 8 fa l ls, below the level at which those prices were on the date of sales registration at the Institute. The amount of the com- pensation payment equals the largest amount that can be calculated as the difference between the minimum registration price or the indicator price prevailing on the date of registration of the sales contract and the level of such prices on either the day of shipment or the ninetieth day a f ter shipment. On the basis of the bills of lading submitted to the Brazilian Coffee Institute by FICAM in connection with the liquidation of the exchange contracts in respect of co f fee exports, the Institute issues to the foreign importer a Guarantee Notice entitling him to contract, with a Braz i l ian exporter of his choice and within a period of 90 days beginning f rom the date of issue of the Notice, the import of coffee up to the value in fore ign currency stipulated in the Notice. The Guarantee Notice expires a f ter the 90-day period. It may be transferred between importers in countries with which Brazil does not maintain bilateral payments agreements. A Guarantee Notice issued to an importer in a bilateral payments agreement country may not be transferred to another country, and the coffee must be used for domestic consumption in the agreement country concerned. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and exporters of cocoa derivatives (butter, cake, and powder) are required to surrender without compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. Similarly, exports of fresh and chilled beef are subject to surrender without compensation of 30 per cent of exchange proceeds when the beef originates in the Central Zone of Brazil. 7 The relevant Resolutions are No. 341 of September 1, 1965, No. 346 of November 27,1965, and No. 365 of June 29,1966. 8 I.e., the price calculated and published in accordance with Resolution No. 67 of the International Coffee Organization. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL In accordance with the provisions of Law No. 5072 of August 12, 1966, which empowers the National Monetary Council to impose export taxes for the purpose of smoothing out the domestic impact of varia- tions in international prices and of conserving export revenue, a 20 per cent tax is levied on exports of seven types of hide. The tax is applied on the difference between the sale price of the exports and the official "base" prices, when this difference exceeds 5 per cent of the established "base" prices. The tax proceeds are collected by the commercial banks through which the exchange transactions are made and are deposited by them on a special reserve account ("reserva monetdria") held by the Central Bank. CACEX may, through the Fund for Export Financing (FINEX), finance exports of consumer durable goods and capital goods against payment at medium term and long term, provided that the suppliers' credit does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced value. Credits granted for more than one year may be refinanced by CACEX for the fu ll amount payable, provided that the exporter has given the necessary guarantees and that the maturity of the loan is considered compatible with the value of the exports and the terms for suppliers' credits pre- vailing in world markets. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on fore ign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct invest- ment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise and which does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufac turer himself or a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. To register foreign capital, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Brazil. The registration of capital is made in the currency in which it entered the country. For financed imports and for invest- ments made in the fo rm of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head off ice) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate cor- responds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If FIRCE approves the terms of financing, it issues a certificate of authorization to CACEX. The latter, in turn, examines the application in the light of the price and essen- tiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares natio- nals.9 If CACEX approves the application, it grants an import license, on the basis of which FIRCE issues a certificate of authorization to the importer. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled ab road; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Bra- zilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. To provide a more normal basis for the supply of working capital in Brazil by foreign investors, the Bank of Brazil under the provisions of SUMOC Instruction 289 enters into repurchase arrangements which provide that the seller of foreign exchange may subsequently repurchase 9 As determined in accordance with guidelines established by the Customs Policy Council. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL equivalent foreign exchange, free of restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges, and that the procedure for registration to satisfy the requirements of the Profit Remittance Law will be both immediate and automatic. The repurchase must be a spot or forward transaction in the free market with any authorized bank (or with the Bank of Brazil if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part after 60 days but will expire after 360 days. All capital transfers abroad are subject to the approval of FIG AM. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at freely negotiated rates. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1966) 10 (cruzeiros per US. dollar) less 30% Buying 808-945 (Free Market Rate for Cru- zeiro Payment a Bag and Minimum Registration Priced Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the minimum registration price, for payment at sight. 1,540 (Free Market Rate Contribution Quota) Exports of beef (fresh or chilled) from the Central Zone. 1,870 (Free Market Rate Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 2,090 (Free Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota} Exports of cocoa derivatives. 2,200 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 2,200 (Free Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Other receipts. less 16% Selling 2,210 ("Manual Market" rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 2,220 (Free Market Rate) Imports.12 Invisibles. Capital. 10 With the exception of the "manual market" rates and the rate applicable to petroleum and petroleum products, the effective rates included in this table are based on exchange rates of the monetary authorities of Cr$2,200 buying, and Cr$2,220 selling, per US$1. They are exclusive of the cost of a stamp tax and certain other charges, the combined cost of which is about Cr$26 per US$1 on each purchase or sale in the free market. 11 The cruzeiro payment per bag and the minimum registration price vary with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 12 The effective rate for Petrobras imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products is determined by its quarterly contracts with the Bank of Brazil. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Changes during 1966 During the year, the Brazilian Coffee Institute lowered the minimum registration prices for exports of different grades of coffee on three occasions (on January 5, January 31, and March 8) and raised them once (on December 10). The effective exchange rates applicable to proceeds f rom coffee exports changed correspondingly. In contrast to 1965, there were no alterations in the cruzeiro payments to exporters per bag of coffee. During 1966 a large number of imports were trans- ferred in six stages from the Special Category to the General Category; on November 22 it was announced that the commodities in the Special Category would be transferred to the General Category effective on March 1, 1967. January 1. For a period of one year a customs surcharge of 10 per cent of existing import duties was levied on all imports except those f rom LAFTA countries. January 1. An additional charge of 10 per cent was imposed on the stamp tax levied on most exchange transactions. January 14- The 100 per cent guarantee deposit which authorized banks were required to collect on most sales of foreign exchange for fu tu re delivery was reduced to 25 per cent. February 17. The 20 per cent contribution levied on proceeds f rom exports of specified types of beef f rom Rio Grande do Sul was elimi- nated. April 14. The amount of foreign exchange which authorized banks could, with exemption f rom the 15 per cent exchange tax and without prior authorization of FICAM, sell for personal remittances was raised f rom US$200 to US$500. April 29. The 25 per cent guarantee deposit that authorized banks were required to collect on most sales of foreign exchange was abol- ished for fo rwa rd settlements. June 1. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange which an importer could purchase in any one week was removed. June Id. Law No. 5025 of June 10 governing foreign trade was published in the Official Gazette. It established a National Council for Foreign Trade (CONCEX), which would be responsible for the formulation of foreign trade policy. The Council would be presided over by the Minister of Commerce and Industry and the other members would be six ministers, the Presidents of the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, and the Customs Policy Council, the Director of the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX), and three repre- sentatives of private enterprise. The Council was to undertake all 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL measures necessary to stimulate the growth of foreign trade. To that end, the law provided for the elimination of numerous charges and taxes on exports, the removal, with minor exceptions, of export licensing, as well as a substantial simplification of administrative procedures relat- ing to exports. The law stipulated, however, that the provision eliminat- ing taxes on exports did not apply to taxes of a foreign exchange nature on exports of coffee and of other commodities, as determined by the National Monetary Council or by the abolished SUMOC. The law also established a Fund for the Financing of Exports (FINEX) which was to be responsible for the financing of exports and of production for expor t; the purchasing and financing of exportable domestic surplus commodities; and the subsidizing of export commodi- ties for which temporary marketing difficulties are encountered abroad. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system went into effec t. Brazil did not participate, since no reciprocal credit agreements had yet been signed by the central banks of Brazil and other LAFTA countries. August 12. Law No. 5072 empowered the National Monetary Council to impose export taxes for the purpose of smoothing out the domestic impact of variations in international prices and of conserving export revenue. Such taxes could be levied on a commodity when the off ic ial "base" price established by the Braz i l ian authorities was exceeded by more than 5 per cent, and were to be applied to the amount received in excess of that ma rg in; the maximum rate of tax was fixed at 40 per cent of the excess. The proceeds collected by the commercial banks were to be deposited on a special reserve account ("reserva monetdria") held by the Central Bank with the Bank of Brazil, and were to be earmarked for specified purposes in accordance with the policies adopted by the National Monetary Council. September 7. The bilateral payments agreement with Portugal was terminated; a new trade agreement provided that all payments between the two countries were to be made in convertible currencies. September 17. The requirement was abolished that an "exchange cover certificate" be secured f rom the Bank of Braz il in order to obtain a visa f rom the Brazilian consular authorities abroad authorizing the shipment of imports in the General Category. This meant that the closing of an exchange contract, which was a prerequisite for obtaining the certificate of exchange cover, could now take place at any time prior to the clearance of the goods through customs, rather than prior to the shipment of the goods from the supplying country, as was required under the previous regulations. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL September 22. The requirement of a minimum bid for promessas de licenga for imports of Special Category commodities was abolished. September 23. The "financial charge" on nontrade payments was eliminated. This tax had been 15 per cent on payments not specifically exempt, or 10 per cent for firms maintaining price increases within limits specified in Portaria 71. October 20. Law No. 5143 provided for the elimination with effect from January 1, 1967 of the stamp tax levied on most exchange trans- actions. October 21. Law No. 5154 increased f rom 10 to 25 per cent the addi- tional charge on the stamp tax levied on most exchange transactions until December 31, 1966. November 22. Central Bank Resolution No. 41 announced that the imports in the Special Category would be transferred to the General Category on March 1, 1967. November 22. Decree Law No. 63 provided for a new customs tariff schedule to become effective on March 1, 1967 and to replace on that date the tariff schedule appended to Law No. 3244 of August 14, 1957. November 28. Decree Law No. 59607 implemented further the policies introduced by Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966 (see June 15). December 7. In accordance with Law No. 5072 (see August 12), Central Bank Resolution No. 42 imposed a 20 per cent tax on exports of seven types of hide, for which "base" prices in terms of U.S. dollars were established. The tax was to be assessed on the f .o.b. price. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat or K 4.76190 = US$1. In dealing with the State Commercial Bank, the only authorized dealer, the Union Bank of Burma buys and sells spot exchange at rates which do not d i f fer by more than % of 1 per cent f rom par. The State Commercial Bank establishes its buying and selling rates for currencies other than the pound sterling on the basis of the rates quoted by the Union Bank of Burma and the London rates for the currency concerned. The State Commercial Bank's buying and selling rates for sterling are Is. 6%2d. and Is. S3^^., respectively, per K 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board through the Exchange Control Department of the Union Bank of Burma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corpora- tion (MEIC or Trade Corporation No. 22 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for their own use, as well as imports under loan and aid agreements in the name of the MEIC. Most payments and imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annually as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. Imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source —prin- cipally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. All payments for imports are made through the State Commercial Bank. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, pay- ments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical insti- tutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed f r e e ly; the same applies to rental fees for movie films that have been permitted to be exhibited. Family remittances are permitted only by fo re ign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been temporarily suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees of fore ign nationality who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship be fo re departure f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been temporarily suspended. However, residents granted an off ic ial permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out f ree ly the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one four th of the amount of foreign currency which they had con- verted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufac tures, and commodities of domestic origin which it is desired to conserve for domestic requirements. All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control author- ities; the exchange must be surrendered to the Union Bank of Burma within six months f rom the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in fore ign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959, and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and gener- ally con fo rm to the economic plans of the Government. However, since February 15,1963, when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits af ter taxes and for the w i thdrawal of imported capital at any time a f ter five years f rom the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. Proceeds f rom the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may be made at the off ic ial rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. The repatriation of personal assets and fam i ly remittances has been temporarily suspended for foreign nationals employed in the private sector. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. Certain debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. Residents are not usually permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The import, export, and t rans fer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. f rom and exports to Rhodesia were Changes during 1966 During the year imports prohibited. March 10. Imports of textiles were shifted f rom Trade Corporation No. 5 to Trade Corporation No. 22 (the Myanma Export-Import Corporation). June 1. The State Commercial Bank became the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Mainland China was terminated. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA October 17. Burma withdrew f rom the Sterling Area. November H. General permission was given to the State Commer- cial Bank to open foreign currency accounts in the names of foreign missions, international organizations, and trade representations, as well as personal fore ign currency accounts in the names of persons enjoying diplomatic privileges. No deposit of kyats to foreign currency accounts was permissible. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc or FBu 87.50 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. The official rates on December 31, 1966 were FBu 87.22 buying, and FBu 87.93 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out per- mitted exchange transactions at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that b a n ki and at rates fixed freely with their customers for certain other currencies.2 Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi.3 Nonresident Accounts Certain nonresidents may maintain nonresident accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physi- cal persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) jur id- ical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi f rancs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These currencies are Angolan escudos, East African shillings, Rhodesian pounds, and South African rand. 8 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mainland China. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a fo rm entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licenses must be pre- sented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month fo l low ing that of validation; in special cases, exten- sions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for specified nonessential goods f rom importers whose outstanding exchange commitments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The required deposit on such commodities is 50 per cent or 100 per cent. Advance deposits are not required, however, on non- essential goods imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 20,000 for goods requiring a 50 per cent deposit, or less than FBu 10,000 for goods requiring a 100 per cent deposit. The deposit must be made at the time the import license appli- cation is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. All essential capital goods, raw materials, and consumer goods are free f rom deposit requirements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of up to two thirds of net salaries and emoluments of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes. For unincorporated businesses and professional persons, transfers are freely permitted of two thirds of income af ter taxes. Companies may freely transfer their net income after taxes. Transfers of accumulated earnings accrued prior to 1965 by persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Transfer of income from rental properties to non- resident owners is permitted a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resident owners may remit two thirds of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase reason- able amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI residents may freely purchase fore ign travel tickets up to certain limits against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declara- tion entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception that authorized banks may certify Declarations for coffee exported on consignment. Declara- tions are valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days af ter the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destina- tions. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in any amount of fore ign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 6, 1963 stipulates the rules under which domestic and foreign private investments may be made in Burundi. It provides that investments of foreign capital are permitted in the fo rm of participation through the acquisition of shares and loans granted for a period exceeding five years and constituting a determining financial element in a firm established in Burundi. Investments in specified existing economic activities (e.g., industrial development, farming, fisheries, tourist industries), as well as new investments in activities that fu lf i ll certain conditions relating to the realization of the economic development plan, may be accorded speci- fied priority rights. Such rights consist mainly of exemptions f rom import duties and from taxes on income from investments. Moreover, certain of the above enterprises, when expanding their activities, may be granted additional concessions. Applications for priority status must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who forwards them to an Investment Commission. Recognition of priority status is granted by a presidential decree. Foreign capital, as defined above, which is invested in a priority enterprise, may be repatriated af ter five years. The transfer of profits and interest of up to 5 per cent per annum of the invested capital is permitted. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Pending the introduction of a new investment code, which is under preparation, all proposals for foreign investments in Burundi are being considered on a case-by-case basis. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatria- tion guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in specified currencies (see footnote 1) by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year f rom the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the official rate of the original amount surrendered. Changes during 1966 August 29. A combined trade and payments agreement was signed with the Democratic Republic of Congo. The agreement would enter into fo rce upon an exchange of notes confirming its approval under the constitutional procedures of both countries. May 4- Burundi and seven other East A f r i c an countries (Ethiopia, Kenya, Ma law i, Maur i t ius, Tanzan ia, Uganda, and Zamb ia) signed a pre l im inary agreement on the establishment of an East A f r i c an Eco- nom ic Commun i ty. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA1 Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Riel is defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0253905 gram of fine gold. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling are carried out at parity rates based on the gold content of the riel and the respective currencies; these rates are CR 35 = US$1 and CR 98 = £1. The official parity for the French f ranc, however, is fixed at CR 10 = F 1; this rate is applicable to most settlements in French francs. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for 25 riels over and above the rate of 35 riels for each U.S. dollar sold (coupons for 2 riels over and above the rate of 10 riels for each French f ranc sold). Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phnom-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 3 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mutually agreed with their custom- ers foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cambodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible currencies may be author- ized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom- Penh exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambodia; this office is empow- ered to authorize all operations related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation (Societe Nationale ^Exportation et ^Im- portation or SONEXIM). The Ministry of National Economy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with the Cambodian Bank of 1 Cambodia is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Commerce and the National Credit (Inadana J a t i ); the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with ten countries with which Cambodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Albania, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria and Yugo- slavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports f rom other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds from the liquidation o f, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be maintained for nonresi- dents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresi- dents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not recognized as resi- dents, may maintain special Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom-Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account ho lder; (2) payments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) f rom the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cambodian stocks and bonds and on other investments made in Cambodia after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phnom-Penh market of banknotes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the country of the account holder; (2) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since January 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange O f f i c e; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or a f ter that date with the approval of the National Exchange O f f ice; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his family up to CR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of CR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cambodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc.). Subject to authori- zation f rom the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to, or increases in capital of, a Cambodian f i rm; (3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or busi- nesses located in Cambodia; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) trans- fers to another capital account related to the country of the account ho lder; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's em- ployees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, e tc .); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his family, up to CR 2,000 a day. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in Cambodia by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon author- ization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Cambodian nationals employed by Cambo- dian firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in Cambodia, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the National Bank of Cambodia places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the pro- gramed imports. Permissible imports are classified in six lists. The list of "finance- able" imports contains those commodities subject neither to a compen- sation payment (perequation) nor to a fixed resale price. Commodities in lists A, B, and 'C are subject to compensation payments of CR 46, CR 41.5, or CR 35 per U.S. dollar, respectively.2 Commodities in List D require a compensation payment of 10-50 per cent of the c.i.f. price. List E contains the commodities that are sold by SONEXIM to local distributors at fixed prices. Foreign exchange received from foreign travelers by approved hotels and surrendered by the latter to SONEXIM may be used by that organization to finance imports (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, below). All imports are effected by a state trading agency, SONEXIM. Applications for goods to be imported may be submitted by industries and traders to SONEXIM, which transmits them to a Special Board in the Ministry of Commerce for consideration. The Special Board allo- cates appropriate foreign exchange to SONEXIM for those applica- tions it approves. 2 The corresponding compensation payments when settlement is made in French francs are CR 6.2, CR 5.2, or CR 4, respectively, per French franc. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. A foreigner working in Cambodia and receiving a monthly salary exceeding CR 5,000 in Phnom-Penh, or CR 3,500 in the provinces, may transfer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary —after payment of taxes —plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent w ife stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, parents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional percentage of transferable income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a maximum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each family.) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of CR 20,000 a month. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Cambodian nationals and working in the private sector are not per- mitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in Cambodia may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income f rom rent, provided that the rent exceeds CR 5,000 for landlords living in Phnom-Penh or CR 3,500 for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign landlords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in Cambodia, when leaving the country tempo- rarily or permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to pre- scribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in Cambodia. The transfer of up to 80 per cent of net profits from nonresident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized, provided that the investment is recognized by the Ministry of Finance as useful to the economic development of Cambodia. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made af ter May 31,1956 may be transferred. Cambodians studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allo- cations equivalent to CR 6,000 for France; CR 5,500 for the United States and the United K ingdom; CR 5,000 for Switzerland; CR 4,500 for Belgium and Japan; and CR 4,000 for any other country. A Cam- bodian student granted a scholarship may receive a monthly allocation to cover the difference between the scholarship and the permissible exchange allocation. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Cambodian currency is prohibited. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by SONEXIM, in accordance with an annual export program prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Export pro- ceeds are surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign tourists stay- ing at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for CR 25 over and above the rate of CR 35 for each U.S. dollar sold (CR 2 over and above the rate of CR 10 for each French franc sold). Only authorized banks and approved hotels may purchase foreign exchange from travelers. Approved hotels must surrender to authorized banks the foreign exchange that they acquire from foreign travelers; the corresponding exchange may be credited to "Tourism SONEXIM Accounts." Such accounts may be used by the holder to import commodities. Hotel bills may be remitted in riels by foreign citizens on off ic ial travel upon producing a statement issued by their embassy certifying the payment of these expenses through its own funds held in clearing accounts or f rom the sale of foreign currencies. The import of Cambodian currency is prohibited. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, it must be surrendered within seven days f rom the day of entry into Cambodia. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Cambodians and leave Cambodia permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans originally granted in foreign currency may be considered transferable income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Ministry of Finance, which requires that a cer- tain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cambo- dians. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as use- ful to the economic development of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of authorized investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA investments made prior to May 31,1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested af ter May 31, 1956 is guaranteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption f rom duties and taxes on rein- vested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported dur- ing the first year of operation) may be accorded to foreign investment considered as exceptionally useful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropria- tion, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationali- zation or expropriation of investments. Changes during 1966 January 1. The import program for 1966 went into effect. It envisaged total imports valued at CR 3 billion. January 1. Notice No. 79 of the National Exchange Office made imports financed with foreign credit subject to the normal import licensing requirements. February 4- Decree No. 391 extended for the year 1966 the premium of CR 25 per U.S. dollar (CR 2 per French f ranc) granted to foreign tourists visiting hotels listed by the Department of Tourism. Such hotels could have the foreign exchange that they received credited to "Tourism SONEXIM Accounts." Holdings on such accounts could be used to import goods. February 17. Imports of various kinds of paper were prohibited. May 25. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Albania. May^ 31. Circular No. 3-C/ONC/A of the National Exchange Office authorized foreign nationals on official travel in Cambodia to settle their hotel bills in riels, provided that they produced a certified state- ment f rom their embassy to the e f fect that the funds had been obtained f rom a clearing account or f rom surrender of foreign exchange. July 1. A revised import program for 1966 was published; the total value of imports anticipated for the year was reduced from CR 3 billion to CR 2.7 billion. August 10. The bilateral payments agreement with the Republic of Viet-Nam was terminated. Payments would take place in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. September 1. The compensation charges (perequation) for imports f rom the French Franc Area of goods in lists A, B, and C, were reduced from CR 7.5, CR 6.5, and CR 5 per French f ranc to CR 6.2, CR 5.2, and CR 4 per French franc, respectively. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is equiv- alent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA francs against French francs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Exchange and International Settlements, which operates under the authority of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Planning. Foreign trade regula- tions are made by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and Planning on the advice of the Directorate of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations. The latter Directorate also issues import and export licenses; both require the visa of the Directorate of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with Mali, with which Cameroon maintains a bilateral payments agreement, are made through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks domiciled in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; pay- ments may also be made through postal channels. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Imports Payments The import from all sources of certain goods (wines, flour, tobacco, beer, sugar, agricultural tools, sheet aluminum, matches, secondhand 1 The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON clothing, and certain textiles of Asian origin) is subject to restrictive licensing. Other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. The import of a number of goods from EEC countries other than France is liberalized. All other imports are subject to licens- ing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are deter- mined by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Planning and are discussed in a joint French-Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the program are subsequently subdivided into quotas for West and East Cameroon. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports from all other countries out- side the French France Area. Under quotas established for imports from EEC countries, only goods originating in those countries may be imported. Under the quotas for other countries, goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. may be imported. Separate quotas are established for Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. Import licenses are not issued until the importer has received his allotment of foreign exchange from a technical committee headed by the Director of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations. For pur- poses of this distribution, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports, although exchange may also be made available, under certain conditions, to newly established import- ers and to industrial enterprises that are not registered importers. Import licenses which do not involve a request for foreign exchange, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign religious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer undertakes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other coun- tries are, in general, subject to approval by the Directorate of Exchange. The transfer of profits f rom authorized foreign investments is per- mitted freely. Transfers of premiums by insurance companies require the approval of the Directorate of Exchange, as do transfers for educa- tional and medical expenses abroad. Foreigners working in Cameroon are permitted to transfer up to 50 per cent of their salary if they have their families abroad, and up to 20 per cent if they are single or have their families in Cameroon. Residents may obtain the equivalent of 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON CFAF 75,000 a year in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area for tourist travel outside the Area; the allocation for business travel is the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 for each trip. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 in legal tender CFA f ranc notes and coins, or the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 in French banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area do not require a license. All other exports require prior authorization or a declaration. Exporters to countries outside the French Franc Area must sign an exchange commitment to the effect that they will surrender the pro- ceeds in non-Franc Area currencies. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Export proceeds in the currencies of all other countries must be surrendered within three months from the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from residents of other countries, and income exceeding CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom securities, must be collected and sur- rendered within three months of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and other countries of the French Franc Area are free of control; those between Cameroon and all other countries require approval. When the investment in Cameroon of capital originating outside the French Franc Area is authorized, the authorization of the Directorate of Exchange includes a guarantee in respect of the transfer outside the Area of interest, dividends, and profits, and of the proceeds upon liquidation. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social develop- ment plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Category A 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufac tur ing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "established agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions are agreed for the operations of the company and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Changes during 1966 January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon) entered into effect. February 1. The import of further products from EEC countries other than France was liberalized. March 31.' The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts were abolished on which exporters could previously retain a portion of their export proceeds received in non-Franc Area currencies. July 1. The customs and excise duties applicable in West and East Cameroon were unified at the level of the UDEAC import ta r i f f. The 16 per cent compensatory duty previously levied on imports passing f rom West to East Cameroon was abolished. July 6. A bilateral payments agreement with Guinea was initialed but did not enter into force. August 19. A trade agreement of the most-favored-nation type was signed with the United Arab Republic. It entered into force provision- ally on the date of signature. At that time, the bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic expired. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Dollar or Can$1.08108=US$l. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items, including certain cereals; for some of these items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports from any source of certain commodities are generally prohibited; these include oleomarga- rine, used automobiles, secondhand aircraft, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to Soviet countries and Mainland China are subject to control; certain non- strategic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. All goods destined for Rhodesia require an export permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No ex ch ange c o n t r ol r e q u i r em e n ts a re imposed on c a p i t al rece ip ts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Changes during 1966 January 1. With certain exceptions, the entry into Canada of non- Canadian periodicals (such as split runs) containing advertising pri- marily directed to the Canadian market, as well as periodicals in which more than 5 per cent of the advertising contained specific refer- ences to sources of availability in Canada or conditions of sale in Canada, was prohibited. January 31. Export controls on copper to destinations other than the United States, introduced in November 1965, were extended to copper scrap, copper alloy scrap, and copper-bearing scrap. March 16. The Government asked all Canadian investors not to acquire certain types of securities issued by U.S.-owned corporations, viz., securities initially issued overseas by U.S. corporations or their non-Canadian subsidiaries which were denominated in Canadian or U.S. dollars and would be subject to the U.S. Interest Equalization Tax if purchased by U.S. residents. Exempt from this request were purchases by Canadian financial institutions and pension funds to cover foreign currency liabilities to nonresidents of Canada and the United States. March 21. Export controls on copper to destinations other than the United States were extended to ores and concentrates. March 29. The 15 per cent withholding tax on interest payments to foreign holders of federa l, provincial, and municipal bonds dated a f ter April 15, 1966 was removed. The tax continued to apply to corporate bonds. March 31. The Government announced that a set of guiding prin- ciples of good corporate behavior had been sent to the chief executive officers of all Canadian subsidiaries of foreign companies. Large and medium-sized subsidiaries were also asked to file periodic confidential reports on certain aspects of their operations and financing. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Central Afr ican Republic has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The BCEAEC stands ready, in trans- actions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA francs against French francs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies con- cerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, which is an autonomous agency under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Foreign Trade Office of the Min- istry of National Economy makes allocations of exchange to each importer for goods included in the annual import program; it also issues import and export licenses, the former requiring the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency The Central Afr ican Republic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Mainland China are made through accounts established under a bilateral payments agree- ment with that country. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France, but these accounts have little importance. They are limited to Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. These may be debited freely for settlements with residents of countries in the area of xThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC convertibility, or for purchases of any foreign currency, but they may be credited only after authorization by the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments The import of coffee, palm oil, groundnut oil, potatoes, butter, cheese, and eggs f rom countries other than the member states of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is being sold normally. Imports of household utensils and matches from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear not originating in a member country of UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages f rom all sources require an import license. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. Most imports from EEC countries are liberalized. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of for- eign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Central African Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC coun- tries (other than France) and for imports from all other countries out- side the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country out- side the French Franc Area. There are ceilings for imports of a few products f rom countries outside the French Franc Area other than EEC countries. There are special ceilings for imports of textile piece goods from "low-wage countries." Licenses for imports outside the program are granted for petroleum imports, for which a joint quota exists for the countries of the Equa- torial Customs Union, for imports of tobacco, and for certain imports by diamond and lumber companies. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year a list of the exchange allocations granted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quotas that have been assigned to him. The application must first be domiciled with an authorized bank which collects a fee of 1 per cent of the import value. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office grants its visa and makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Payment up to the equivalent of F 20,000 may be made when the import 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC application is domiciled with a bank; any remaining sum due may not be paid until the goods have been shipped. Import licenses are valid for 9 months and may be extended once for 3 months, i.e., the maximum period of validity is 12 months; in exceptional cases, mainly involving capital goods, a second extension for 3 months may be granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Insurance on imports and exports must be contracted with French insurance com- panies or companies operating in France. The transfer of profits f rom registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Residents of foreign nationality (other than that of a French Franc Area country) may transfer to countries outside the French Franc Area 80 per cent of their net basic salary; the transferable portion is 70 per cent for those having their wives with them in the Central A f r ican Republic, and it is reduced by 5 percentage points for each legitimate child living with them. The transfer must be made within three months af ter the salary period con- cerned. Other invisibles are authorized liberally, provided that corrobo- rating evidence is submitted to the Exchange Office. Residents traveling to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes or French f ranc notes. Resi- dents traveling to a country outside the French Franc Area may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip and may on each trip take out banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 in French f rancs or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA f ranc notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month from the date of their receipt; collec- tion must take place within 180 days from arrival of the goods in the country of destination. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Central Afr ican Republic and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between the Central A f r i c an Republic and all other countries are subject to authori- zation. Under Law No. 62.355 of February 19, 1963, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) estab- lished in the Central A f r ican Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equip- ment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and Preferential market are limited to the territory of the Central A f r ican Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favorab le provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic develop- ment; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Pref- erential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC The transfer of proceeds from the liquidation of registered fore ign investment is permitted freely. Changes during 1966 January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon) entered into effec t. March 15. Securities issued by public or private legal entities having their main office outside the French Franc Area were exempted from deposit requirements, provided that the securities were payable in French francs only and were serviced in France only. March 15. Residents were permitted to sell and buy fo rwa rd non- Franc Area currencies in respect of any payment to be made to, and any receipt to be obtained f rom, countries outside the French Franc Area; they were also permitted to buy such currencies spot up to six months before the date on which the transfer was to be made. April 23. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, on which exporters could retain specified portions of export proceeds received in non-Franc Area currencies, were abolished. June 16. At a meeting of the Joint French-Central A f r ican Commit- tee, some changes in import and export licensing policy were decided upon. July 27. All imports of alcoholic beverages were made subject to individual licensing. August 80. The regulations concerning the transfer by foreign resi- dents of savings f rom salaries were revised. October 5. Imports from any source of potatoes, butter, cheese, and eggs were prohibited. October 10. Imports of certain types of footwear not originating in UDEAC countries were made conditional on prior purchases in a specified ratio of the local product. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee or Cey Rs 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 13.33 = £1) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget and an import program are drawn up annually. All remittances of foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for certain industrial imports are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries, and those for imports under an export incentive scheme are granted by the Commissioner of Commodity Purchase. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations pre- scribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Payments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts f rom the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with 11 countries with which Ceylon has bilateral pay- ments agreementsx must be made through the relevant clearing accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country. Receipts from all other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency 2 1 Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. "The specified currencies are listed as the currency of any country of the Ster- 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON other than a Sterling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non- Sterling Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations f rom the general regulations, and all financial transactions with the Syrian Arab Republic, require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate f rom payments for imports, may be used for investment in Ceylon in prescribed securities. Proceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Except for imports by the Food Commis- sioner's Department, direct imports by other government departments, and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to specified amounts), all imports require individual licenses3 and are divided into three groups —essential goods, less essential goods, and nonessential goods. Licenses to import goods in the first and second groups are issued up to the limits of quotas based on past imports. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced goods are either prohibited or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government-sponsored corpora- tions and registered importers. All imports f rom countries in the "Ceylonized" area 4 and a few imports from any source are restricted to ling Area, and Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 8Fees are payable on import licenses for goods other than textiles as follows: Rs 5 on licenses valued up to Rs 500; Rs 10 on licenses that exceed Rs 500 but not Rs 1,000 in value; when the import license exceeds Rs 1,000, an additional fee of Rs 10 is payable for every Rs 1,000 or part thereof. A fee of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is levied on import licenses for textiles. Importers exempt from pay- ment of import duties are also exempt from these various fees. 4 The "Ceylonized" area comprises Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Federal Republic of Ger- 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON registered Ceylonese traders —a special group of registered importers. Imports of specified commodities 5 are restricted to government or state corporations or the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate quotas, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. In addition to the above arrangements, certain imports may be made under an export incentive system (see Exports and Export Proceeds, below). An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evidence of importation and of the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. Most imports are subject to a 10 per cent customs surcharge on the existing rate of import duty; certain imports are also subject to customs surcharges of 5 per cent ad valorem or 20 per cent of the normal rate of duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual permits. The remit- tance of profits, dividends, and other investment income was, until July 31, 1964, freely permitted, but since then a moratorium, which subsequently was relaxed, has been applied to such remittances;6 releases of accumulated arrears have been taking place since the latter part of 1965. The remittance of l i fe insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Ceylon many, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. 5These include rice, wheat, flour (except cornf lour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, red onions, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, lentils, dhal, cement, fodder, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manufactures of textile materials. 6 Exemption from the moratorium has been granted for interest on foreign loans; advances or credits obtained abroad by the Government or the Central Bank; interest on government and government-guaranteed securities issued locally, if the investment had been made through inward remittance of foreign exchange; interest on advances or credits available in the usual financial opera- tions connected with trade and payments; interest payable by private parties in respect of credits they had negotiated in the past with foreign suppliers of capital goods, etc.; and income resulting from new investments in approved industries. Relief is also granted on the grounds of hardship. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets avail- able to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad is only granted for fu r- loughs of foreign nationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of traditional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 10 a day for a maxi- mum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educational institutions in "Asian group" countries,7 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 350 a month is allowed; for study in educational institutions in other coun- tries, exchange is made available at f stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies and £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, plus actual fees and costs of books. For travel and other expenses for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount author- ized will depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a w i fe and £ stg. 55 for a child, provided that, when the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Ceylonese nationals are not granted exchange for fam i ly remittances. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they are entitled to travel exchange. 7 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East African region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports to the Syrian Ara,b Republic require the prior approval of the Controller of Imports and Exports and that of the Controller of Exchange. For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all com- modities except 36 minor items. Licenses for exports to Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, the Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and the Republic of Viet-Nam are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Exports of certain manufactured goods and re-exports of foreign manufactured articles are allowed only under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and dia- monds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the license for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods will be received in Ceylon under prescribed regulations and, usually, within four months f rom the date of shipment. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered. An export incentive scheme is in fo rce for all industrial goods the manu fac tu re of which has been either approved by or registered with the Development Division of the Ministry of Industries and for speci- fied nonindustrial exports (so f a r, only tobacco and mica have been declared eligible). Exporters of such commodities are granted transfer- able bonus vouchers in amounts equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported, provided, for industrial exports, that the net fore ign exchange earnings (i.e., the excess of earnings over the cost of imported inputs, excluding depreciation of machinery) are not less than 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The vouchers entitle the holder to obtain import licenses to the same face value for any commodity admitted for import by established traders ("trade quota items")? and for industrial raw materials, machinery, and essential spare parts. Applications for bonus vouchers cannot be submitted until the export proceeds have been collected and surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including cur- rency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the fo rm of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ceylon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON however, Ceylon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or in shares of public com- panies incorporated in Ceylon. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon is subject to the transfer moratorium. New foreign investments in Ceylon that are considered and approved by the Foreign Investment Approval Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affa irs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or divi- dends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be registered with the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to prescribed limits, the transfer of their net income, other than investment income, is allowed for one year from the date of emigration if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizenship, net income, other than investment income, may be transferred, within certain limits, even after one year. Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings up to a maximum of Cey Rs 75,000 for the "Asian group" and Cey Rs 150,000 for other countries. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be trans- ferred, subject to the above limits. Changes during 1966 March 13. The limits up to which certain minor items could be imported without individual import license were increased to 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Cey Rs 250 a year a person for gifts and to Cey Rs 50 a consignment for books, periodicals, and newspapers. March 16. A. policy statement on the treatment of private foreign investment in Ceylon was issued. Present policy was to relax the moratorium on the remittance of dividends, interest, and profits as the balance of payments position improved. The moratorium would not apply to new, approved investments, provided that the capital was supplied by inward remittance of funds, delivery of goods, or debit to a moratorium account. The moratorium would apply, however, to future earnings f rom investment of blocked funds. The remittance facilities were specified that foreign investors would enjoy once an investment had been approved. There would be no discrimination of any kind between foreign and domestic investors. March 16. Credit for local insurance was given on import licenses for consignments insured with the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon; only the foreign exchange content of the amounts paid as insurance premiums would be debited against the license. March 25. Imported textiles became subject to maximum retail prices; they were already subject to maximum import and wholesale prices. April 9. The maximum allocation of exchange for business travel was increased f rom £ stg. 6 to £ stg. 10 a day. May 10. Exports to the Syrian Arab Republic required the prior written approval of the Controller of Imports and Exports before any commitment could be entered into. May 15. All financial and commercial transactions with the Syrian A rab Republic required the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. June 11. The Cooperative Wholesale Establishment was appointed the sole importer of all textiles for the trade. June 28. Agreement was reached with the Sudan to the effect that Sudanese licensing of Ceylonese tea would be related to Ceylonese purchases of Sudanese raw cotton. July 29. It was announced that the moratorium on the transfer of dividends, interest, and profits was being relaxed fu r the r; such remit- tances had been approved at a rate of Cey Rs 1 million a month during the first five months of 1966 and would, if the balance of payments permitted, be allowed up to an amount of Cey Rs 29.5 million in 1966 through seven monthly releases of Cey Rs 3.5 million. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON July 29. The Foreign Exchange Budget for 1966 was published; it set the total size of the import program for 1966 at Cey Rs 2,389 million. July 29. A substantial revision of import duties became effective. The rates of duty on raw materials, which had varied from 17 per cent to 40 per cent, were replaced by a un iform rate of 30 per cent. The concessionary rate of 22 per cent for raw materials, industrial machinery, equipment, and parts essential for local industrial develop- ment was lowered to 10 per cent. Rates of 200 per cent and 300 per cent on some household appliances were reduced to 150 per cent or less. Goods on which import duties were abolished in 1965 remained duty- free, and those that were exempted in 1965 from the 10 per cent import surcharge continued to be so exempt. August 13. It was announced that no import licenses would be issued for automobiles valued at over Cey Rs 12,500 c.i.f. September 25. Tea small holders were granted refunds of export duty equivalent to the amount by which the prices they obtained at auction fe ll short of a specified rupee amount per pound. October 9. New trade and payments arrangements were agreed with the Syrian Arab Republic, under which the latter undertook to resume large-scale purchases of Ceylonese tea. The agreement would come into effect 15 days af ter exchange of the instruments of ratification. November 1. A fee of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value was levied on import licenses for textiles. November 8. A new trade agreement with the United Arab Republic was signed, under which the latter undertook to increase considerably its purchases of Ceylonese tea. The agreement would come into effect on November 24,1966. November 27. It was announced that the foreign exchange budget for 1967 would be considerably smaller than that for 1966 in view of a serious decline in export earnings. November 27. The relief measures available since September 25 to tea small holders were extended to all tea estates. December 1. An export incentive scheme was introduced. It was initially applied to exports of all industrial goods the manufacture of which had been either approved by or registered with the Development Division of the Ministry of Industries and to specified nonindustrial exports. Exporters of such commodities could obtain bonus vouchers for an amount equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported, provided, for industrial exports, that the net foreign exchange 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON earnings (i.e., the excess of earnings over the cost of imported inputs excluding depreciation of machinery) were not less than 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The vouchers, which were freely transferable, could be used to obtain import licenses to the same face value for any com- modity admitted for import by established traders under current import policy ("trade quota items"). All approved industrial exports effected after October 1,1966 were declared eligible for bonus vouchers. The scheme was also applied to exports of tobacco and mica. It would be administered by the Commissioner of Commodity Purchase. December 15. Export incentive bonus vouchers could also be used to obtain import licenses for industrial raw materials, machinery, and essential spare parts. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is equiva- lent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French francs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned, and'include a commis- sion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Department, which is a department of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transac- tions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Department, which has delegated to the banks considerable authority in these matters. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and the Exchange Department allocate exchange for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area. Export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and require the approval of the Exchange Department. Prescription of Currency Chad is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area may be made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks domiciled in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Settlements must be made in the currency in which the invoice is expressed. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applicable throughout the French Franc Area. 1 The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, sugar, beer, meat preserves, and cotton are restricted. With minor exceptions, all other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This pro- gram and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Chadian Committee. A special payment and licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R., to which special quotas apply. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country except the U.S.S.R. For goods included in the annual import program and for imports under quota from EEC countries other than France, the Ministry of Economic Affa irs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer based on, principally, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Depart- ment authorizes the importer's bank to make available to him the foreign exchange required for the purchase of the commodity and for incidental expenses. Import licenses are valid for six months and are automatically extended for another six months. Further extensions are not granted except, in unusual circumstances, for manufactured goods when evidence is presented concerning the time needed for their production. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (Libya, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses over and above the quotas of the import program are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Department, which, however, has delegated authority to authorized banks to approve certain transactions. Residents traveling abroad are granted a tourist allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 for each passport for each trip. Foreign exchange is granted freely for bona fide business trips. The transfer of profits from registered foreign investment is permitted freely. As a rule, foreign nationals employed in Chad may transfer their entire net earnings to their country of origin. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. There is no limit on the means of payment denominated in CFA francs or French francs that travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out. Resident and nonresident travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 or up to F 1,000 in banknotes and coins; however, prior to their departure, nonresidents may exchange into foreign currencies means of payment denominated in CFA francs and purchased against payment in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may, with a few exceptions, be made freely; exports to all other countries require licenses. Specified exports to Libya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Export proceeds received in currencies of other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within three months from the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain from 6 per cent to 15 per cent of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for any expenses outside the French Franc Area and for imports outside the import program; in practice, these accounts are of minor importance. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD banknotes or coins; however, travelers from other countries in the French Franc Area must surrender, within one month, amounts in non-Franc Area currencies exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. Capital Capital movements between Chad and other countries of the French Franc Area are free of control; those between Chad and all other countries are subject to authorization. Investments by residents of countries in the French Franc Area may be made without authorization. Investments by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to the authorization of the Exchange Department; however, authorized banks and notaries have been granted the authority to approve certain types of investments. Residents may take up loans f rom persons resident outside the French Franc Area up to an amount equivalent to CFAF 50 million, with interest up to 5 per cent per annum and for a period not exceeding 2 years; these regulations, however, do not apply to public sector financing. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expan- sion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) —Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon. Preferential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD by a decision of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. The transfer of proceeds from the liquidation of registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Changes during 1966 January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon) entered into effect. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the State Bank, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either market. The rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates. Through the banking market pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large mining companies, receipts from a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and most capital transactions pass through the brokers' market. In general, capital transactions are entitled to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange, in advance of the date on which payment for imports can legally be effected, from exporters through commercial banks in a so-called futures market; for imports of most commodities, such exchange purchases are mandatory. Com- mercial banks are authorized to contract export proceeds in advance of receipt from all registered exporters except the large copper companies. On December 31,1966, the spot exchange rate in the banking market was E° 4.36 buying, E° 4.37 selling, per US$1. On the same date, the effective exchange rates in the banking market for "futures" were E° 4.37 buying, and E° 4.38 selling, per US$1.1 Transactions not per- mitted in the banking market may be settled in the brokers' market, but in many cases the approval of the Central Bank must first be obtained; certain invisibles that are channeled through the brokers' market are restricted. The exchange rate in the brokers' market on December 31, 1966 was E° 4.99 buying, E° 5.00 selling, per US$1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances that may be effected without prior authorization by the Central Bank are subject to a 6 per cent exchange tax. *0n January 10, 1967, the spot a] and "futures" rates were unified at E° 4.45 buying, and E° 4.46 selling, per US$1. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank of Chile is in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Copper Corporation. Imports for the public sector are supervised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Public Sector, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Corporation; large copper and iron ore mining enterprises must pay their income taxes in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argen- tina, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. All other transactions with other countries, including exports of iron ore by small and medium- sized mining companies, may be settled in any currency, irrespective of the country of origin or destination of the payment. Imports and Import Payments All imports, except those of the copper mining industry, must be registered with the Central Bank. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see be low). Certain other commodities may be con- sidered as effectively prohibited since, although on the List of Per- mitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 1,000, 5,000, or 10,000 per cent. Goods may normally be imported in any amount. The Central Bank, however, is empowered to reject import applications (registrations) for any commodity group if total applications for imports in the current month exceed by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject registration for all commodities listed under the same customs tariff heading. During 1966 the Central Bank invoked these powers on only one occasion.2 Imports of goods not on the permitted list are 2 These powers were initially exercised by a special committee in the Central Bank (Comite de Rechazo); during 1966, the committee first ceased to invoke Law No. 16101 in respect of commodities originating in LAFTA countries, and subsequently ceased operating at all. As a result, the time needed to obtain approval on an import registration was reduced considerably. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE only allowed to be imported in "free port" zones, such as Arica, Maga- llanes, and Aysen, and may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may purchase exchange in the "futures market" as soon as their import application has been approved, but they may not take delivery until the compulsory deferment period for import payments has been completed. For specified commodities, importers must, within 60 days a f ter shipment, purchase exchange in the "futures market" corresponding to the fu ll registered value against immediate cash pay- ment in local currency; this requirement now applies to about 70 per cent of all imports. In all cases, however, the exchange cannot be remitted until 70 days 3 af ter the da te of the bill of lading. Most imports are subject to customs surcharges calculated by the addition of two separate charges (the impuesto adicional and the impuesto adicional agregado) and payable when the goods are cleared through customs. The following items are exempt: imports by large companies concerned with mining iron, copper, nitrates, or iodine; crude petroleum and diesel oil destined for the nitrate, subnitrate, and iodine industries; imports by the University of Chile; imports under loans or credits f rom the Export-Import Bank of Washington or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; imports under the Surplus Agricultural Commodities Agreement with the United States; spare parts for agricultural machinery; planes and parts for Chilean airlines; ju te sacks, magnetic enamels, etc.; certain capital goods; and goods imported into the "free port" zones of Arica and Magallanes. The surcharges range from zero to 400 per cent of the c.i.f. value and are paid in escudos at a rate of exchange that is period- ically established by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1966 this rate was E° 4.37 per US$1. Most imports are subject to advance deposit requirements, which must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The importer's deposit obligation generally is equal to the amount of the import sur- charges. Thus, the maximum advance deposit generally is 400 per cent of the c.i.f. value, or, for a small number of commodities, 1,000 per cent or 5,000 per cent. For protective reasons, however, certain imports continue to be subject to an advance import deposit expressed as a percentage of the c.i.f. value and higher than the import surcharge; the rate for these items is 10,000 per cent. 8 With effect from February 9, 1967, this period was reduced to 60 days. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE The fo l low ing imports are exempt f rom advance deposit require- ments: imports by the Government, the municipalities, the universities, certain specified state enterprises, the large mining companies, and the fishing industry; imports financed by international organizations or under agreements for U.S. agricultural surpluses; imports on a deferred payment basis (con cobertura diferida); many capital goods financed by the U.S. AID; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of food- stuffs into the principal mining area; imports to replace machinery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 earthquake; household effects and personal effects of travelers; personal effects of certain immigrants; household goods of returning Chileans and resident fo r- eigners ; imports not of a commercial character and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other member countries of LAFTA and are included either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Special Concessions extended to Para- guay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports from LAFTA countries of goods on the Chilean National List. Imports from Cuba are prohibited and imports f rom Rhodesia require a guarantee of 500 per cent of the value of the goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made through the brokers' market in accordance with the regulations applicable in that market. Payment at the rate of exchange in the banking market is permitted for a few commercial invisibles; all other transactions take place in the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to f a r e s ), up to the equivalent of US$360 a person a year for travel to Latin American countries, or up to US$720 a person a year for travel to other countries; for fam i ly remittances (including remit- tances to students), up to US$200 a month for each beneficiary; for books, up to US$100 a person a mon th; for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$200 a person a yea r; and for insurance premiums, up to US$1,200 a person a year.4 Payments for medicine and pharmaceutical products may be made, provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those in respect of other transactions, require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except *This amount is for premiums contracted in foreign currency with Chilean companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. For insurance taken out with other companies, the authorized bank requires special permission from the Superintendent of Insurance Companies to sell the exchange. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE those for which the Central Bank has approved a transfer application, are subject to a tax of 6 per cent, which is applicable not only to pur- chases of notes and checks but also to payments in respect of bills of exchange and letters of credit. Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 310 a trip. Travelers may take out any amount in Chilean banknotes. Resident travelers may take out 10 per cent of their travel allowance in foreign banknotes when traveling to countries outside Latin America; for travel in Latin America, up to US$60 is available in foreign banknotes, or up to US$100 if the traveler agrees not to use the remaining US$260 of his allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian reasons, exports to Cuba are prohibited. Exports to Rhodesia require a guarantee of 500 per cent of the value of the goods. Otherwise, most goods may be exported freely, but exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota. In order to enforce these requirements and to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds, all exports, except those of the large copper mines and the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (COVENSA) must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank. The Central Bank certifies the f.o.b. value of the exports for the purpose of restitution of duties and taxes to exporters of certain agricultural and industrial products either imported earlier for processing or produced locally. It also issues reimbursement certificates in respect of certain taxes and other charges in accordance with the Export Promotion Law (Law No. 16528). The export price for copper is set by the Copper Corporation. For most exports except those by the large copper and iron mines and COVENSA, exporters must repatriate within 90 days f rom the date of shipment the total value of their exports and must sell the exchange within 10 days from its repatriation through an authorized bank at the exchange rate in the banking market. The Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may allow exporters to repatriate export pro- ceeds at a later date; accordingly, longer surrender periods have been established for some minor exports. The large copper companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements, primarily to meet their tax obligations. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. The bank issues a certificate 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE that payment has been made or arranged in an approved manner, to enable clearance of the export through customs. All registered exporters except the large copper companies may sell their export proceeds to a commercial bank in advance of receipt; the proceeds of certain com- modities are bought in this manner by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communications agency fees, from specified transactions by national insurance companies, f rom commissions, from reimbursements of insurance claims, and f rom credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking market. Exchange derived from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital Large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange market. Normally, capital is subject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry; this policy applies also to remittances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrange- ments, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. (1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, CHILE remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an application and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to further foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promo- tion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking market, provided that the amount repatriated is financed f rom the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the invest- ment. The regime is implemented through individual investment agree- ments in accordance with Article 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years af ter entry and may amount to 12% per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is permitted annually up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the transfer of the fu ll amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the banking market to acquire abroad any machinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a further extension of the regime under Article 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guarantee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earnings on, imported capital, pro- vided that certain conditions were met. These were that (a) the invest- ment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repatriation must not be more than 20 per cent per year, on a noncumulative basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree- Law 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee approves by decree the particular investment; it establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption from payment of certain import surcharges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE in the same market (normally the banking market) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export proceeds of his investment. Changes during 1966 During the year, the exchange rates in the banking market and the brokers' market were revised from month to month. The import of many additional commodities financed by loans from the U.S. AID or by suppliers' credit was permitted on a deferred payment basis (con cobertura diferida). Included were machinery, taxis, trucks, and buses. At various dates, commodities were added to the List of Permitted Imports. January 11. It was announced that all transactions in bearer securi- ties denominated in foreign currencies would be considered as foreign exchange transactions and would require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. January 14- The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.62 per US$1. January 14- The compulsory deferment period for import payments was reduced from 120 days to 110 days. January 14. The Central Bank required a guarantee equivalent to 500 per cent of their value for all commercial transactions with Rhodesia. January 24. The Central Bank issued a consolidated list of additions and amendments to the List of Permitted Imports resulting from various decrees issued in December 1965 and January 1966. Additions to the permitted list included certain machinery and medicines. January 25. Importers could purchase exchange in the "futures market" as soon as their import application had been approved. The foreign exchange could not be delivered, however, until the compulsory deferment period had been completed, and unless the goods had been shipped within 150 days of the date of approval. Certain commodities were added to those covered by Central Bank Circular No. 590 of 1965, which had established that for specified goods importers must, within 60 days after shipment, purchase exchange in the "futures market" corresponding to the fu ll registration value against immediate cash payment in local currency. January 28. The University of Chile and the State Technical Univer- sity were declared exempt from the Central Bank's authority under Law No. 16101 to reject import applications. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE February 3. The date on which exporters could sell exchange in the "futures market" was changed from 30 days to 10 days before the date when the surrender of their export proceeds was required. February 10. Following the modification of the Copper Law (Law No. 11828, as amended by Law No. 16425), the Central Bank announced what were the implications in respect of exchange matters for the copper companies. February 11. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E ° 3.69 per US$1. February 11. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Chile and Argentina. February 17. Further commodities were brought under the import regime established by Circular No. 590 (see January 25, above). March 8. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina. March H. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Chile and Colombia. March 15. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.77 per US$1. March 17. Further commodities were brought under the import regime established by Circular No. 590 (see January 25, above). March 22. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Colombia. March 31. Hull insurance could only be taken out with domestic insurance companies or authorized agents of foreign insurance com- panies. April 5. The Central Bank henceforth accepted applications for imports from Portugal payable in any currency, provided that the authorized bank concerned confirmed that it did not hold any balances in Portuguese escudos. April 5. The Central Bank was given authority to adjust the approval of registrations of imports by the television receiver, automobile, and sewing machine industries in Arica to the need to stimulate the develop- ment of similar industries in the rest of the country. April IS. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.84 per US$1. April 14- The compulsory deferment period for import payments was reduced from 110 days to 100 days. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE April 15. Further commodities were brought under the import regime established by Circular No. 590 (see January 25, above). April 26. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Chile and Paraguay. April 26. The Central Bank required a guarantee of 500 per cent of the import value for import registrations in respect of watches. April 27. All direct or indirect trade with Cuba was prohibited, with the exception of deliveries of food, medicine, and supplies for humani- tarian purposes. May 1. Circular No. 778 of the Superintendent of Banks announced that, in accordance with Article 182 of Law No. 16464, a stamp tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value would be payable on all imports. The measure took effect from April 25. The tax was payable upon registra- tion of the import or upon submission of an application for an import license. A tax of 1 per cent was also imposed on all drafts, payments orders, bank pagares, and letters of credit. May 10. The compulsory deferment period for import payments was reduced f rom 100 days to 90 days. May 10. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Mexico. May 11. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.92 per US$1. May 11. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Paraguay. May 13. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Chile and Peru. May 20. Further commodities were brought under the import regime established by Circular No. 590 (see January 25, above). May £6. The transfer of exchange in payment for imports on con- signment had to be made within one year from the date of arrival of the commodities. June 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Chile and Mexico. June 2. The Central Bank announced that, subject to certain con- ditions, it would guarantee the availability of foreign exchange for the repatriation of the principal of, and the payment of interest on, capital imported under Article 16 of Decree No. 1272 and converted in the banking market. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE June 5. Decree No. 1505 of the Ministry of Finance reduced the import surcharges on a large number of commodities, including many types of machinery. June 8. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 4.01 per US$1. June 15. Regulations were issued for the implementation of the reciprocal credit agreement with Peru. June 15. The surcharge on many items of machinery was modified. June 16. Central Bank Circular No. 686 prescribed a minimum downpayment for imports on a deferred payment basis of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value (plus cost, insurance, and freight) or 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value. June 22. Persons receiving indemnity payments in foreign currency in respect of insurance policies taken out in Chile in foreign currency were required to declare the proceeds within 15 days from the date of receipt and to sell them in the brokers7 market within a further period of 10 days. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing arrangements went into effect. Within their framework, Chile's reciprocal credit arrangements came into operation. July 12. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E ° 4.06 per US$1. July 12. The compulsory deferment period for import payments was reduced from 90 days to 80 days. July 20. The exchange tax on those remittances through the brokers' market that did not require central bank approval was increased from 4 per cent to 6 per cent. July 20. The Central Bank introduced new credit facilities to stimu- late exports; they consisted of preshipment and postshipment credit. August 1. The travel tax was increased from E° 60 to E ° 310 a trip for travel to countries outside Latin America; the tax of E° 30 a trip on travel to Latin American countries was abolished. August 4- Registration of imports of spare parts valued at up to US$500 was required within 60 days of shipment; previously, this period was 15 days. August 8. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 4.13 per US$1. August Id. The price of Chilean copper to foreign customers was based on the daily quotations on the London Metal Exchange. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE August 17. An export promotion law (Law No. 16528) was promul- gated. It provided for refunds of certain taxes and for the creation of export credit facilities. August 22. The advance deposit required for imports of lubricating oils in bulk containers was raised from 5 per cent to 1,000 per cent. August 25. Imports of books could be paid for two years from the date of arrival. September 5. Decree No. 1930 of the Ministry of Finance reduced the import surcharges on many types of machinery. September 7. The Central Bank announced new facilities for the financing of exports and issued lists of eligible products. September 7. Central Bank Circular No. 734 announced details of the preshipment and postshipment credits to be granted to exporters. Lists were included of eligible commodities. September 9. Increased exchange allowances for invisibles were announced. The increases were as follows: tourism, from US$300 to US$360 a person a year for Latin America and from US$600 to US$720 for other countries; family maintenance, from US$100 to US$200 a month for each beneficiary; books, from US$30 to US$100 a person a month; and periodicals, from US$100 to US$200 a person a year. An allocation of US$1,200 a person a year was established for transfers of insurance premiums, replacing one of US$100 a person a month. September 12. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 4.18 per US$1. September 27. Decree No. 1270 of the Ministry of Economy, Devel- opment, and Reconstruction set out in broad lines how the export promotion law would be implemented. September 29. The interest that could be remitted abroad for charges included in applications for import exchange cover was raised from 7 per cent to 9 per cent. October 10. Decree No. 2198 of the Ministry of Finance reduced the import duties and other import charges on many types of machinery. October 10. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 4.25 per US$1. October 21. Further commodities were brought under the import regime established by Circular No. 590 (see January 25, above). 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE October 31. New procedures were prescribed for payments to and receipts from Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru under the reciprocal credit agreements with those countries. November 7. The conversion rate for the calculation of import deposits was established at E° 4.31 per US$1. November 22. Circular No. 805 of the Superintendent of Banks directed authorized banks to agree credit lines with Argentine banks for the purpose of enabling Chilean deliveries of copper to be made to Argentine buyers on 180-day credit terms. November 30. The first list of commodities to receive rebates under the new export promotion law (see August 17, above) was issued in Decree No. 1224 of the Ministry of Economy, Development, and Reconstruction. December 2. The compulsory deferment period for import payments was reduced from 80 days to 70 days. December 5. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 4.37 per US$1. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially fixed are accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Com- mission (FETC) is the executive agency concerned with foreign exchange and trade matters. The functions of the FETC are to formu- late policies and plans on foreign exchange and foreign trade; to screen and approve the use of foreign exchange (including the issuance of exchange and trade licenses); to coordinate the use of foreign exchange with the international economic cooperation program; to determine the official buying and selling rates of exchange; to act as a coordinating agency among various authorities in connection with foreign exchange and trade transactions; and to deal with other relevant matters pur- suant to orders of the Executive Yuan. Decisions of the FETC are implemented through the appropriate organizations and appointed banks. Exchange and trade licensing is administered by several com- mittees in accordance with the nature of the applications. These committees refer applications for import licenses to the FETC only in exceptional cases. The Central Bank of China is responsible for the over-all manage- ment of foreign exchange and the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Bank of Taiwan issues import and export licenses on authorization from the FETC; however, licenses for imports under U.S. Public Law 480 are issued by the Bank of China. 1 In terms of new Taiwan dollars, the buying and selling rates, respectively, are as follows: Australian dollar 1 = 44.80, 44.915; Canadian dollar 1=37.00, 37.10; deutsche mark 1 = 10.00, 10.03; French franc 1 = 810, 8.13; Hong Kong dollar 1 = 7.00, 7.02; Italian lire 10,000 = 640.00, 641.60; Malayan dollar 1 = 13.06, 13.10; and pound sterling 1 = 112.00,112.28. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malayan dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance investments in the Republic of China. Settlements with Spain are made in U.S. dollars through a bilateral account. The currency and method for making payments to residents of foreign countries other than Spain are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, per- sons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially d ifferent f rom that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in foreign currencies. These accounts—designated Foreign Currency Deposits—may be used for making authorized payments abroad. They are of two categories: (1) Foreign Currency Deposits maintained by government organiza- tions, insurance and transportation companies, and private productive enterprises. These cover exchange either earned by account holders or directly allocated by the exchange authorities on the basis of individual permits. (2) Foreign Currency Deposits maintained by individuals. These are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and personal passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Balances on these accounts originate from exchange obtained by account holders prior to their arrival in the Republic of China or from earnings and other receipts from their private resources outside the Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports require individual licenses. When applying for a license to import goods in excess of US$400, the importer must submit evidence 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA that he has acquired "patriotic bonds"2 corresponding to at least NTI1.25 for every U.S. dollar of the f.o.b. value of the goods; exempt from this requirement are educational equipment, aircraft parts, and machinery and equipment financed with self-provided exchange. Full exchange settlement for imports must be made within 14 days of approval of the license. Provided that the foregoing requirement has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct f rom the country of production and to control effectively imports f rom Mainland China; for similar reasons, certain commodities are not permitted to be imported f rom Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities which still can be financed with U.S. aid funds can be imported only f rom the United States. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) con- trolled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods usually excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of pharmaceuticals and a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain luxury Chinese goods, cigarettes, cigars, liquors, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported from time to time by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domestic distribution of these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxury items; certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in sufficient quantity to meet domestic demand and whose factory prices are not more than 15 per cent higher than the c.i.f. prices of comparable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictively; goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of four main groups of importers: government trading agencies, reg- istered private traders, licensed private traders on a commission basis, and end-users and manufacturers. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports financed with U.S. aid funds, and imports for government and military organizations, a"NT$500 million patriotic bonds of fiscal year 1966," repayable in 20 semi- annual installments beginning on January 3, 1968, or "NT$500 million patriotic bonds of fiscal year 1967," repayable beginning on January 3,1969. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the PETC and be reg- istered by the Taiwan Provincial Department of Reconstruction; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$200,000 and an "export record" of two years equivalent to more than US$50,000. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign sup- pliers. They also must be approved by the FETC. End-users and manufac turers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are automatically licensed (e.g., raw cotton, wool, wood for the production of p lywood). Private importers (i.e., importers other than government agencies and public enterprises) handle more than 70 per cent of the imports paid for with currencies provided from official exchange reserves. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. aid program and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self- provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating f rom exchange receipts exempted f rom the surrender requirement. With the exception of machinery and equipment imported by a pro- ductive enterprise for its own use, imports f rom all sources are subject to a defense surcharge equivalent to 20 per cent of the customs duty. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval f rom the FETC. Pay- ments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allo- cated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (year-end bonus, profit sharing, overtime pay, and insurance payments are excluded), but the maximum amount permitted for fam i ly maintenance is the equivalent of US$250 a month to Japan, US$400 to Europe, and US$500 to the United States; remittances of larger amounts require special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Member- ship fees to foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are approved up to certain limits. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales o f, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of foreign entertainers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses and investment in the Republic of China. A maximum of US$2,400 a year is provided for tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad. Individual approval is required if their total tuition and expenses exceed the US$2,400 limit. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip (US$150 for each accompanying dependent) for any type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved as liberally as possible, account being taken of the merits of submitted applications. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and the equivalent of US$200 in foreign currencies. Those travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to non- 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA communist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted af ter they have been processed. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms. The export of a few foodstuffs is restricted. There are also ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Minimum prices are established for exports of some 20 commodities. The FETC is empowered to authorize exports at prices below the minimum export price. Manufac turers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, af ter export of the processed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials, namely, import duties, defense surtax on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption f rom the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing f rom exports immediately af ter their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or delayed collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 without providing evidence that they have surrendered fore ign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to proceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and originally approved by the FETC, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings f rom private invest- ments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittance may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA Capital Investments by foreigners may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, liberally revised in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new foreign invest- ments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original fo rm; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity f rom expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment consti- tutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by foreign nationals must be made in enterprises conducive to the eco- nomic and social development of the country, such as mining, com- munications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Foreign investors who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval f rom the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Purchases and sales of stocks by foreign investors must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Division of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, investments may be made outside the Republic of China only in the fo rm of technical know-how, semifinished prod- ucts, and locally manufactured equipment. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any special transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, etc., are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Changes during 1966 During the year, a number of commodities were shifted from the controlled to the permissible list of imports, or vice versa; the net effect was some further relaxation of import restrictions. February 22. The Executive Yuan approved revised "Enforcement Rules for the Statute for Encouragement of Investment," which pro- vided for further simplification of administrative procedures and generally facilitated domestic and foreign investment in China. March 1. The FETC issued a revised commodity classification for import and export licensing purposes. It included a list of commodities that could be imported only from the United States and one of goods that could not be imported from Hong Kong and Macao. April 22. The ceilings on exports of cotton textiles to Italy were removed, following Italian liberalization of cotton textiles originating in the Republic of China. June 6. Exporters of bananas and canned mushrooms were exempted from the requirement to purchase "patriotic bonds" equivalent to NT$10 a basket and NT$50 a box, respectively. July 3. The amount of "patriotic bonds" that importers of most goods were required to purchase was raised from NT$1.00 to NTJ1.25 for every U.S. dollar of the f .o.b. value of the goods. July 15. Controls were established over exports of asparagus. August 19. The validity of import licenses providing for payment on documents against payment or documents against acceptance terms was extended from two to six months. November 18. Soybeans were shifted f rom the "controlled" to the "permissible" import list. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transac- tions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic in the off ic ial market, which comprises several fixed rates. These are (1) a preferential market rate of Col$7.67 per US$1 for purchases of foreign exchange representing capital imported for petroleum exploration and exploitation; (2) a preferential market rate of Col$9.94 per US$1 for the purchase of proceeds f rom coffee exports; (3) a preferential market rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 for other purchases and sales of exchange that must be effected in the preferential market; (4) an intermediate market rate of Col$13.50 per US$1; and (5) a capital market rate of Col$16.25 per US$1 buying, and Col$16.30 per US$1 selling. The preferential market rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 applies on the buying side to royalties, consular fees, and certain other government receipts; it applies on the selling side to certain students' expenses, specified payments by the National Government, and purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned oil companies operating in Colombia. The intermediate market rate applies on the buying side to the proceeds f rom other exports (except c o f f e e ), to capital registered as entering through the intermediate market, and to all receipts f rom foreign loans. This rate applies on the selling side to all imports, 80 per cent of certain freight payments, service on new foreign debt, service on old foreign debt covered by special provisions, and repatriation and profits on new capital registered as entering through the intermediate market. There is a remittance tax of 10 per cent on payments of interest on, and repayments of, external debt and foreign capital registered before June 17, 1957, if such payments are made through the inter- mediate market; the application of the tax results in a fixed rate of Col$15.13 per US$1. All other transactions take place at the capital market rate. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To import from, export to, or make payments to fore ign countries, prior application for registration of the transaction must be made at the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. Exchange for payments must be purchased at the Bank of .the Republic and may be acquired through the commercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. Applications 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA for exchange certificates require the prior approval of the Exchange Registration Division. An Exchange Regulation Fund, operated by the Monetary Board, regulates operations in the official exchange market. The Monetary Board draws up a foreign exchange budget; it also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange; it must make the necessary reservations to provide for payments resulting f rom the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and from the servicing of the public external debt of the Government, the local authorities, the National Coffee Federation, and the public agencies. Over-all import and export policy is determined by the Board of Foreign Trade. The- Superintendency of Foreign Trade controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. Imports and exports of foreign capital and the transfer of profits thereon, including commissions and royalties for trademarks and patents, must be recorded at the Exchange Registration Division. The Division is also in charge of the registration of the foreign debt. The Prefecture of Exchange Registration, which is attached to the Ministry of Development, enforces the control over exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Denmark, Finland, and Spain for commercial transactions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agreement. Under the agreement with Denmark, goods origi- nating in third countries and purchased in one of the agreement countries may be settled through the agreement account by mutual consent of the partners. The National Federation of Coffee Growers has concluded trade and payments agreements with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of the Republic and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Provided that certain requirements are met, nonresidents are per- mitted to hold foreign currency accounts in Colombia. Imports and Import Payments For purposes of import licensing, imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by the Superintendency of Foreign Trade; and goods 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA that may be imported freely. Import liberalization, however, has been suspended, and all permissible imports require a prior import license. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Exchange Regis- tration Division is required for all imports; the charge for import registration forms is Col$5.00 for imports valued at less than US$20.00 and Col$100.00 for other imports. Advance import deposits are required for all commodities. Imports of capital goods by the National Govern- ment and by regional or municipal governments are subject to a nom- inal advance deposit of Col$1.00. From October 1, 1965 to August, 1, 1966, the rates of advance deposit listed below were reduced once a month by 5 per cent for the commodities imported at the intermediate market rate; beginning on November 1, 1966, they have been reduced by 5 per cent every quarter. An advance deposit of 1 per cent is required for the following: capital goods and spare parts imported by official agencies and public service agencies for their own use; equipment for the printing industry; capital goods and spare parts not destined for resale; capital goods intended for the establishment of die-forging works; r#w materials and basic foods tuffs brought into the country by the National Institute of Health for the preparation of pharmaceu t ical p roduc ts; certain chemicals; raw materials for tires; imports under clearing agreements concluded for the foreign marketing of coal and products of Acerias Paz del Rio S.A., subject to the exchange and trade regulations; foods tu f fs imported by the National Institute of Supply, with the approval of the competent ministry, for Colombia's normal needs; imports exempt f rom advance deposits under laws, decrees, or resolutions in effect be fo re the coming into force of Law No. 1 of 1959, provided that they comply with the regulations and are authorized by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; sacramental wine imported by the dioceses in quantities considered reasonable by the Bank of the Republic; imports of books, newspapers, and magazines of a scientific or literary nature which will contribute to the culture or entertainment of the Colombian people; and a few other items. Other advance deposits required as a prerequisite to import registration are as fo l lows: 5 per cent for certain machinery and equipment for basic industries and for capital goods valued at over US$250,000 f.o.b. for which payments are spread over several years; 10 per cent for paper, cryolite, zinc ore and concentrates, aluminum fluoride, certain lighting equipment, agricultural machinery and apparatus, chassis for jeeps, and seagoing ships; 30 per cent for certain types of sheep, goats, poultry, trees, shrubs, plants, wheat, oats, barley, oleaginous fruits, fish oil, fodder concentrates, certain ores, and raw materials for the production of Pharmaceuticals; 60 per cent for church organs; 65 per cent for certain raw materials, some chemicals, and metal 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA tools; 90 per cent for certain metals and metal products; 500 per cent for gold coins; and 120 per cent for all other goods. These advance deposits are not required (1) on imports from LAFTA countries of goods included in Colombia's National List or in the special concession lists for Paraguay and Ecuador, or (2) on imports under the "Vallejo Plan." 1 The advance deposit must be placed with the Bank of the Republic before the application for registration of the import trans- action is submitted to the Exchange Registration Division; it is returned 90 days af ter the merchandise is cleared through customs. Advance deposits are calculated on the f.o.b. value; the conversion rate is Col$9.00 per US$1 for commodities under license and Col$13.50 per US$1 for commodities on the free list. A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports; licenses are granted by the Exchange Registration Division, provided that it is satisfied that the importer has complied with all requirements. Applications are not approved unless evidence is submitted that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for exchange certificates, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to at least 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at the rate of Col$13.50 per US$1; exempt are obligatory payments of the Government and of the local authorities, remittances to students abroad, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits granted to the Bank of the Republic. Import payments before the maturity date of the exporter's claim are not authorized, except for official imports. Importers, or commercial banks acting for them, may buy exchange certificates covering the value of their imports from the Bank of the Republic. Certain foodstuffs may be imported only by the National Institute of Supply. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of invisibles is sold as follows: (1) At the preferential rate, expenses of certain students engaged in studies abroad at the university level that are not available in Colom- bia; government payments for diplomatic expenses; government pay- ments for contractual obligations entered into before September 2, 1965; and government, departmental, and municipal debt service 1 These are nonreimbursable imports (goods imported without the use of official exchange made in accordance with Articles 55-60 of Law No. 1 of 1959. The "Vallejo Plan" provides that certain types of goods can be imported free of advance deposits and import duty, provided that they are financed abroad and that they are used to produce goods for export. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA payments, provided that the underlying receipts were not brought in at the intermediate or free market rates. (2) At the intermediate rate, 80 per cent of freights on imports financed with exchange certificates and carried by national or foreign ships belonging to a shipping con- ference or by ships registered in a LAFTA country; debt service payments on new foreign loans brought in after September 2, 1965; debt service payments on capital registered prior to June 17, 1957; profits on capital registered prior to June 17,1957 ( for these two latter categories, a remittance tax of 10 per cent of the peso countervalue of the transfer calculated at the capital market rate is app l ied ); profits on capital brought in af ter September 2, 1965 and registered as eligible for intermediate market treatment; service payments on debts con- tracted before October 25, 1964 and registered at the intermediate market ra te; service payments on that part of official debt contracted before September 2, 1965 that corresponds to receipts brought in at the intermediate rate. All other payments for invisibles must be made through the capital market at the rate of Col$16.30 per US$1. Exchange licenses for payments for invisibles are granted according to officially established priorities and within the limits set bimonthly in a foreign exchange budget. Transfers for students' expenses abroad are limited to US$120 a month, and allocations for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a day, not to exceed US$1,800 a year. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior application for registration is required for all exports except crude oil. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide a personal guarantee in pesos corresponding to the fu ll export value to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. For coffee, the proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days a f ter registra- tion if the shipping documents are made out in the interior of Colombia, or within 10 days after the date of the bill of lading in respect of shipment by sea; these regulations do not apply to exports made by the National Coffee Federation, which may keep stocks abroad for sale and make deposits in banks abroad in the interim before sale. Exporters of bananas must surrender 60 per cent of their proceeds within 10 days of the issuance of the export license and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days. The surrender period is 180 days for some manufac tured products containing imported raw materials. Receipts 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA from other exports have to be surrendered within 90 days after registration. Exporters of products other than coffee may retain 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds to repay foreign debt contracted prior to June 30, 1965. Exporters of manufac tured products with a nonreim- bursable import component imported in accordance with the provisions of Articles 55-60 of Law No. 1 of 1959 may retain part of their exchange earnings to repay their foreign suppliers ("Vallejo Plan," see footnote 1). All other exchange proceeds from exports, except those f rom the export of crude oil by foreign-owned oil companies, must be surrendered. The exchange proceeds f rom exports of coffee must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at the buying rate of Col$9.94 per US$1 fixed by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to a mini- mum surrender price (reintegro) presently fixed at US$65.25 per 70-kilogram bag; the surrender price for bananas and other products varies according to the quantity exported and the price that the exporter may obtain in accordance with world market conditions. Further, coffee exporters are required, prior to registration, to sur- render in kind to the National Coffee Fund the equivalent of 19 per cent of the volume of coffee exported (retention). Exchange proceeds from all other exports are surrendered at the intermediate rate, i.e., Col$13.50 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. With minor exceptions, they are converted at the capital market buying rate of Col$16.25 per US$1. Capital Capital imported for the activities of the petroleum industry, includ- ing activities in the field of petrochemicals, must be registered with the Exchange Registration Division. When such capital is imported for exploration and exploitation of petroleum or to pay for related services, the foreign exchange must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the rate of Col$7.67 per US$1. Foreign capital invested in the petroleum industry and net profits on such capital are remitted accord- ing to special laws and contracts. For other industries, there is at present a dual system. Capital may be brought in through the capital market, in which case all amortiza- tion and profit remittances must be made through the same market. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Capital may also be brought in through the intermediate market. In this case, repatriation may be made through the intermediate market. Capital registered prior to June 17, 1957 may also be repatriated through the intermediate market, and profit remittances on such capital are made through that market; the remittance tax of 10 per cent applies to such capital repatriation and profit remittances. Capital may not be repatriated earlier than five years after it was brought into the country, and profit remittances must not exceed 8 per cent of the total investment annually. All foreign capital must be recorded at the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade; the import and repayment of such capital must be recorded as well as the transfer of profits thereon, including commissions and royalties relating to trade- marks and patents. Capital imported through the intermediate market must, in addition, be specially registered with the above-mentioned Division. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1966) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying (FixedRate2) 7.67 Exchange sales by petroleum companies for exploration and exploitation. 9.00 (FixedRate*) Royalties. Consular fees and other government receipts, except receipts from foreign loans. 9.94 (FixedRate*) Exports of coffee. 13.50 (Intermediate Market Rate) All other exports except those of crude oil by foreign-owned petroleum com- panies.4 All receipts from foreign loans. Capital inflow electing intermediate market registration. Selling 9.00 (F ixed Rate2)3 Certain payments by the National Gov- ernment. Certain students' expenses. 13.50 (Intermediate Market Rate) All imports. Eighty per cent of import freight payments on merchandise paid for with exchange certificates. Service on foreign debt registered after Sep- tember 2, 1965 and on foreign debt registered under special provisions before that date. Repatriation and profits on foreign capital electing inter- mediate market registration. 2 These rates are referred to as the preferential market rates. 8 Purchases of crude oil for refining from foreign-owned oil companies operating in Colombia are paid for at Col$9.00 per US$1; they are not considered as imports. * These need not be surrendered. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying 16.25 (Capital Market Rate) Other invisibles. Other capital. Changes during 1966 Selling 15.13 (Intermediate Rate plus 10% Remittance Tax)6 Principal and interest on external debt registered before June 17, 1957. Repa- triation of and service on foreign capi- tal registered before that date. 16.30 (Capital Market Rate) Other invisibles. Other capital. January 19. The surrender requirement for export proceeds was rescinded for the part of the proceeds corresponding to the freight and insurance paid on the imported raw materials that were incorporated in the goods exported. January 26. The official buying rate for proceeds of coffee exports was depreciated from Col$8.50 to Col$8.94 per US$1. The quantity of coffee that private exporters were required to surrender to the National Coffee Fund was lowered from 16 per cent to 15 per cent of their export shipments. January 26. The distribution of the exchange differential was discontinued. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to pay the National Coffee Federation the following amounts per U.S. dollar received from coffee exports: Col$0.40 for the National Fund (of which Col$0.10 remained earmarked for the Bank of the Republic) and Col$0.10 for the National Coffee Federation, to be spent in social and economic campaigns. January 27. The minimum surrender price for exports of coffee was raised from US$71.50 to US$72.25 per 70-kilogram bag. January 27. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a third list of imports that could be imported free of license, if paid for at the intermediate rate of exchange; some items on this list could also be imported at the preferential rate, if an import license were obtained. February 3. The remittance tax on some debt and capital payments channeled through the official market was abolished. These payments were (1) repatriation of capital registered in the intermediate market 5The remittance tax is payable in Colombian pesos; it is applied to the amount of dollars transferred, which amount is calculated at the capital market rate. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA af ter September 2, 1965; (2) service on private debt registered after September 2, 1965; and (3) repayments on private debt contracted before October 25, 1964, provided that the debt would have been approved for intermediate market registration by special decision. February 22. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a four th list of imports that did not require a license if paid for at the intermediate rate. February 28. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a fifth list of imports that did not require a license if paid for at the intermediate rate. March 9. The Monetary Board raised the rate utilized in the cal- culation of exchange deposits from Col$9.00 per US$1 to Col$13.50 per US$1 for payments effected through the intermediate market. March 17. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a sixth list of imports that did not require a license if paid for at the intermediate rate. March 30. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Colombia and Chile. April 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Colombia and Mexico. May £. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Colombia and Peru. May 10. A. reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Colombia and Argentina. June 1. The advance deposit required for imports of certain chemicals was reduced to 1 per cent. June 15. Twenty per cent of the peso equivalent of debts incurred abroad be fo re October 25, 1964 could be deposited at the Bank of the Republic; making this deposit resulted in the right to transfer the principal at the rate of Col$13.50 per US$1. June. The provision that 80 per cent of certain import freight could be settled at the intermediate market rate was extended to merchandise transported by ships whose capital was 80 per cent owned by a LAFTA country. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effect. Within its framework, Colombia's reciprocal credit agreements came into operation. July 1. Decree No. 1592 imposed a travel tax of Col$500 on Colom- bian nationals and resident foreigners, payable upon departure from the country; exempt were government officials and certain students. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA A 15 per cent surcharge was levied on income tax payable by Colom- bian nationals who stayed outside Colombia for three months without interruption, or for four months with one or more interruptions. July 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Colombia and Ecuador. July 29. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a seventh list of imports that did not require a license if paid for at the intermediate rate. August 21. The official buying rate for proceeds of coffee exports was depreciated f rom Col$8.94 to Col$9.35 per US$1. Payments for imports that were still being effected at the preferential rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 were all shifted to the intermediate rate of Col$13.50 per US$1. These imports, with the exception of taxis and chassis, were included in an eighth list of imports that did not require a license. The buying rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 ceased to be applicable to exports of manufac tured products with an import component exceeding 50 per cent paid at the preferential rate. It was announced that, starting in November 1966, advance import deposit rates were to be reduced by 5 per cent quarterly instead of 5 per cent monthly, as had been the practice since October 1, 1965. October 20. The minimum surrender price for exports of coffee was lowered f rom US$72.25 to US$68.00 per 70-kilogram bag. November 2. A consolidation was issued of the existing regulations concerning minor exports. November 29. Operations in the free exchange market were sus- pended. Priorities for the delivery of official exchange were instituted. All imports again required prior licenses. All individuals or corporations resident or domiciled in Colombia who possessed foreign exchange or documents representing foreign exchange were required to communi- cate the amounts to the exchange control o f f ice; they could no longer use these funds or claims without previous authorization. November 30. The official buying rate for the proceeds of coffee exports was depreciated from Col$9.35 to Col$9.94 per US$1. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was lowered f rom Col$68.00 to Col$65.25 per 70-kilogram bag. The quantity of coffee that had to be surrendered to the National Coffee Fund by private exporters was increased from 15 per cent to 19 per cent of their export shipments. December 1. A resolution of the Monetary Board established the priorities that would be observed in allocating exchange for sale in the preferential and intermediate markets. A capital market replaced the free market. Transactions in the capital market could only be made 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA through the Bank of the Republic or authorized banks; the buying and selling rates were fixed at Col$16.25 and Col$16.30 per US$1, respec- tively. Priorities were also established for sales of exchange in this market. Banks were required to maintain minimum reserves of 100 per cent against their foreign currency liabilities (net of their clients' deposits). December 19. The remittance tax of 10 per cent on certain foreign debt and capital payments no longer was payable in U.S. dollars. The tax was henceforth to be paid in pesos on the foreign exchange value of the transfer; this value was calculated at the capital market rate. December 28. An Exchange Registration Prefecture was instituted to enforce the controls on transactions in invisibles and capital transactions. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Congo (Brazzaville) has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA francs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned. There is a commission of 0.6 per cent on transfers to countries outside the French Franc Area; on payments for imports of petroleum and petroleum products, however, the commission is 0.1 per cent. The amount of the commission must be deposited by the intermediary bank to an account of the Exchange Office with the Treasury. Forward transactions in non-French Franc Area currencies are per- mitted for all receipts and payments in such currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Ministry of Economic Affairs allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import program; it also issues import and export licenses; the former require the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Congo (Brazzaville) is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; settle- ments with countries with which Congo (Brazzaville) maintains bilateral payments agreements,2 however, are made through special accounts in accordance with the terms of those agreements. 1The CFA franc circulating in Congo (Brazzaville) is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 2 These countries are Mainland China and Mali. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. They are limited to Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. These accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents and for purchases of non-French Franc Area currencies; they may be credited only a f ter authorization by the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All imports of Portuguese origin are prohibited. Imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import pro- gram does not include petroleum imports, for which a jo int quota is determined for the four countries of the Equatorial Customs Union. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries (other than France) and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area, including those in the Soviet countries and Mainland China. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automati- cally ; such liberalized imports are not included in the quotas for EEC countries. Imports of certain products from non-French Franc Area countries are sub ject to special ceilings which are established in the import program separately for EEC countries other than France and for all non-French Franc Area countries. Imports of certain products f rom some low-wage countries of the Far East are limited to an established percentage of the total quotas fixed for all non-French Franc Area countries. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Payments up to the equivalent of CFAF 1 million for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area may be made as soon as the 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) import transaction is domiciled. Import licenses are valid for one year, and no extensions are granted except for specially manufac tured goods when evidence is presented concerning the delay in manufacture. Imports of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses outside the import program are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other coun- tries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office; however, all payments by Portuguese nationals or by companies con- trolled by Portuguese nationals are subject to special presidential approval. For the following categories, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange without prior authorization from the Exchange Off ice: (1) for travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip, except to Portuguese nationals; (2) for study and living expenses connected therewith, upon presentation of supporting docu- ments from the educational institution attended by the student; and (3) for family maintenance, upon presentation of supporting docu- ments. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes the sale of foreign exchange freely for the following: payments for patent rights, royalties, trademarks, licenses, etc.; the net amount of salaries received by foreigners employed in Congo (Brazzav i l le); expenditures and earn- ings of foreign governments; and medical expenses and living expenses abroad for reasons of health. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all destinations of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cotton, and minerals are subject to individual license. All other exports are f ree of indi- vidual license. For exports to countries outside the French Franc Area 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) the exporter must sign an exchange commitment (engagement de change). Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month from the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 10 per cent of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between Congo (Brazzaville) and other countries of the French Franc Area are free of control; those between Congo (Brazzaville) and all other countries are subject to authorization. Controls over foreign investments in Congo (Brazzaville) are admin- istered along the lines established by exchange control regulations in France. The transfer of profits from, as well as the proceeds from the liquida- tion of, registered foreign investment is permitted freely. However, Portuguese nationals and companies controlled by Portuguese nationals require the authorization of the President of Congo (Brazzaville) to make financial transfers abroad; Portuguese nationals are upon request given permission to make such transfers to Portugal. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on Decem- ber 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo (Brazzav i l le), whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expan- 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) sion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo (B razzav i l le ); it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Pref- erential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above). Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and Planning, who, af ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Cus- toms Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legislation. Changes during 1966 January 1. The treaty establishing the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon) entered into effect. March 28. The Office National du Commerce (OFNACOM) was granted a monopoly over the importation of salt and cement from all sources. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Democratic Republic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Congo Franc. The official buying rate is CF 150 = US$1 and applies to all exchange proceeds; the official selling rate is CF 180 = US$1 and applies to all exchange payments. The buying and selling rates for other currencies are fixed on the basis of official cross rates between each of those currencies and the U.S. dollar. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered in the first instance by the National Bank of Congo, which is responsible for global allocations of foreign exchange for payments for imports and invisibles, and for the broad formulation and control of exchange programs. The High Com- mission for Planning and National Reconstruction and the Ministry of National Economy are responsible, respectively, for the determination of priorities for imports and for the allocation of import quotas to recognized importers. On the basis of decisions reached by the above- mentioned agencies, combined import licenses and payment authoriza- tions for imports are issued by the Licensing Office. Authorizations for payments for invisibles are issued by the Exchange Office. Both offices are an integral part of the National Bank. An Exchange Commission, composed of representatives of the economic ministries and of the National Bank, deals with contraventions of exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency regulations.1 Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs. These accounts may be freely debited for and credited with settlements in the Democratic Republic. 1A bilateral payments agreement with Burundi, which was signed in 1966, will • not come into operation unless exchange of ratifications takes place. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 2. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Nonresident nationals require special authorization f rom the National Bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. All Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited f ree ly; they may be debited freely for transfers to other Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and to accounts abroad. 3. Blocked Accounts. These accounts in Congo f rancs may be freely credited with funds owned by nonresidents; they may be debited without special authorization for certain specified purposes. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are prohibited except between accounts held by the same individual. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of goods is prohibited. All imports are sub- ject to individual licenses. The National Bank determines the total amount of foreign exchange to be made available for payments for imports and for other foreign payments in accordance with an exchange budget which, normally, is established for each four-month period. The budget distinguishes between imports financed from the Democratic Republic's own resources and those financed by foreign aid. Within the budget, the Ministry of National Economy establishes global quotas by commodity categories for imports financed by the Democratic Republic's own resources, in accordance with priorities set fo r th by the High Commission for Planning and National Reconstruc- tion. The Ministry of National Economy then allocates individual quotas to recognized importers. Importers who have obtained an import quota must apply to the Licensing Office, through an authorized bank, for a combined import license and exchange authorization. Importers do not require individual import quotas for a few specified products, such as petroleum products, salt, yeast, dried fish, and many types of meat, the import of which has been liberalized. The commodity cate- gories to be financed by foreign aid are determined in agreement with the donor countries. Export companies and nonexporting producers and service enter- prises deemed essential to the economy are granted guaranteed exchange allocations for imports and invisibles directly required for their operations. These allocations are established in annual agreements ("exchange allocation agreements") between each company and the National Bank, and are an integral part of the exchange budget. Under this system, certain proportions of export proceeds surrendered by 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO exporting companies at the rate of CF 150 per US$1 are credited at the rate of CF 180 per US$1 to so-called Resident Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be debited exclusively for payments for authorized categories of imports and invisibles to be effected directly by the account holder in connection with his own business activity. Banks in which the Resident Foreign Currency Accounts are held obtain an import license on behalf of the account holder and make payments against the presentation of import documents. The proper use of exchange credited to Resident Foreign Currency Accounts is verified by the National Bank. Imports under guaranteed exchange allocations to nonexporting producers and to service enterprises are not subject to quota requirements, but a combined import license and exchange authorization is required in accordance with the provisions of the respective exchange allocation agreements. In recent years, about 30 per cent of total exchange allocations for imports financed from the Democratic Republic's own resources was for imports under the individual quota procedure administered by the Ministry of National Economy, and 10 per cent was for liberalized imports. The remaining 60 per cent of total exchange allocations for imports was divided about equally between export companies, on the one hand, and nonexporting producers and service enterprises, on the other, under guaranteed exchange allocation agreements. During 1966, because of delays in effecting imports and because of favorable export developments, special allocations of exchange for imports were made under a presidential quota. Quantities of consumer goods in categories determined by the National Bank were imported subject to special deadlines. Quotas were granted to exporters by the National Bank upon presidential approval, and licenses were issued without prior scrutiny by the Ministry of National Economy or the High Commission for Planning and National Reconstruction. An application for an import license must be accompanied by a speci- fication of the merchandise to be imported, its unit price and country of origin, the transport charges connected with it, and the currency in which the payment is to be made. No exchange is granted to cover insurance on imports. The combined import licenses and exchange authorizations that are granted are normally valid for four months. Within that period, importers must complete the importation and make the authorized payment. Banks are permitted to open letters of credit for importers to whom import licenses have been granted. The importers must forthwith pro- vide to the banks the countervalue in Congo francs, calculated at the rate of exchange for imports; however, by that action they are not 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO relieved of any exchange risk involved. Payment to the foreign exporter may not be made until the bank has received the invoice and the documents evidencing either the shipment to the Democratic Republic of the merchandise described in the import license, or its clearance through Congolese customs. A certificate of verification of the quan- tity, the quality, and the country of origin of the merchandise, issued by a foreign correspondent of the Societe Congolaise de Surveillance, must be part of these documents. A similar licensing procedure applies to import with "foreign financ- ing," which are allowed under certain conditions. These imports con- sist mainly of consumer goods, including durables (in the form of g i f ts ), of materials and equipment related to new investments, and of the requirements for institutions such as schools and charitable organi- zations. An import license is required, but there is no corresponding payment authorization, and no foreign exchange is made available. The quota procedure also is not required for imports financed by foreign aid. Authorized banks may issue import licenses direct to importers against the submission of import contracts and the opening of letters of credit. However, for these imports the special procedure prescribed for foreign aid imports must be observed. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the National Bank. No exchange is granted for insurance on imports. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals resident in the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo are authorized, within certain limits. Travel abroad by foreigners must be entirely paid for with foreign exchange supplied by the traveler himself, while fares for authorized travel by Congolese nationals may be paid in Congo f rancs; airline booking offices and travel agencies may, upon application, obtain foreign exchange cover to the extent that their receipts in Congo francs exceed one third of their total receipts f rom fares for foreign travel. There are basic allocations for official and business travel and students' expenses abroad. Transfers for certain administrative expenses abroad by enter- prises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. No exchange is made available for transfers of investment income. All payments for invisibles are subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. Provisions covering the invisibles listed above may be included in "exchange allocation agreements." In these cases, the exchange is made available in accordance with procedures similar to those described in the section on Imports and Import Payments, above. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO All travelers may take out Congolese banknotes up to CF 15,000 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Banks are normally authorized to extend such licenses to exporters who submit a declaration of collec- tion of exchange. Such declarations must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which pay- ment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and sur- rendered. There is an export duty of 30 per cent on copper. Under the system of "exchange allocation agreements" (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above), certain proportions of the export proceeds surrendered may be repurchased by the exporters con- cerned in accordance with the procedures described above. Exporters of agricultural products may use up to 25 per cent of repatriated export proceeds to settle payments for authorized imports and invisibles. "Exchange allocation agreements" with mining companies provide for allocations of foreign exchange in specified amounts. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. The import of Congolese banknotes is prohibited, except that travelers to the Democratic Republic may import such banknotes up to an amount not exceeding CF 15,000 a trip. With certain exceptions, nonresident travelers to the Democratic Republic are required upon entry to purchase for each day of the proposed stay US$20 worth of Congo francs at the official buying rate. Evidence of purchases must be shown at the time of departure. In the event of early departure, amounts of local currency purchased in excess of the required amount are refund- able in foreign currency. No one on Congolese territory (whether national or foreigner) is allowed to hold foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment in amounts in excess of US$300 or its equivalent. Foreigners traveling to the Democratic Republic and carrying amounts in excess of this limit must deposit the excess amounts in an authorized bank within 48 hours of arrival on Congolese territory; they are allowed to recover them on departure. Nationals who leave the Democratic Republic and wish to export foreign banknotes and foreign means of payment in excess of US$300 or its equivalent must submit to the customs authorities an official certificate showing that the banknotes and other means of payment concerned have been acquired legally. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Capital Capital transfers abroad, except some relating to the Government, are not authorized. The sale of real estate located in the Democratic Republic can only be made to the Congo Government, against payment in Congo f rancs; gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by executive ordinance. Changes during 1966 January 1. A new classification system for imports was introduced. Import quotas were hencefor th established in accordance with 90 cus- toms sections corresponding to the Brussels customs nomenclature. January 1. The selling price or rent of real estate situated in the Democratic Republic was required to be stipulated and paid in Congo francs; sales of such real estate could only be made to the Government, with the exception of sales made for pub l ic purposes or as participation in the capital of enterprises. The Government reserved to itself the right to purchase or to decline to purchase the real estate offered to it. Gratuitous transfers of real estate situated in the Democratic Republic required authorization by ordinance of the Chief of State. January 1. Minimum daily requirements were established in respect of the amount of foreign exchange to be sold at the official exchange rate for local currency by nonresident travelers entering the Demo- cratic Republic. These requirements did not apply to travelers possess- ing a Blocked Account in Congo f rancs with balances sufficient to cover living expenses while visiting the Democratic Republic, travelers who in terms of tax legislation were under the charge of a resident, and travelers employed in the Democratic Republic by virtue of a contract concluded with an employer established in the Democratic Republic. January 81. It was announced that commercial and financial rela- tions with Rhodesia were to be considered suspended. March 18. A. High Commission for Planning and National Recon- struction was established following a decision to abolish the Bureau of Economic Coordination. March 30. A turnover tax was introduced which was applied at a rate of 7.5 per cent on the wholesale price of goods, whether imported or manufactured in the Democratic Republic, and at a rate of 10 per cent on the price of certain services. Import and export taxes, the statistical tax, excise and consumption taxes, and taxes on company profits were increased. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO May 5. The export tax on copper was increased from 17 per cent to 30 per cent. May 21. All mining companies were in principle required to deliver to the Government 10 per cent of their production, in the form in which exports normally took place. June 7. The Democratic Republic resumed the fu ll and free disposi- tion of all its real estate, forestry, and mineral concessions granted before June 30, 1960. The State was to proceed sovereignly in granting rights to exploit its natural, forestry, and mineral resources. June 7. All enterprises whose principal field of operations is in the Democratic Republic were required to have their administrative head- quarters and registered office located in the Democratic Republic by January 1, 1967, and by the same date to put their statutes in accord- ance with Congolese legislation for commercial enterprises of a similar nature. August 25. The responsibilities of the High Commission for Planning and National Reconstruction were expanded to include policy formula- tion and coordination of foreign technical assistance and aid. August 29. A combined trade and payments agreement was signed with Burundi. The agreement would enter into force upon an exchange of notes confirming its approval under the constitutional procedures of both countries. November 23. A national insurance company was created; it was to begin operations on January 1, 1967. Private companies were allowed to continue their activities under conditions to be determined by the Government. December 31. The Government announced the creation of a new Congolese mining company, Generale Congolaise des Minerais, to replace the Union Miniere du Haut Katanga. The latter's operations in the Democratic Republic had been terminated by Government Order on December 24, following the refusal of Union Miniere's Board of Directors to move the company's head office to Kinshasa as required by Congolese legislation enacted on June 7,1966. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon or 0 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of 0 6.62 per US$1. Exchange at the official rate is granted only for listed essential imports and specified invisibles. All other sales and pur- chases may be made freely in a fluctuating free market; the rate in that market on February 2, 1967 fluctuated between 0 7.00 and 0 7.35 per US$1. Mixing rates arise from the fact that transfers at the official rate of interest and dividends on registered capital are limited to 10 per cent of the registered amount, while amounts in excess of that per- centage can be transferred through the free market. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1,1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are made in Costa Rican colones and at the official rate through the Camara de Compen- sacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for payments for all imports of Central American origin and for transactions to which the regulations of the official exchange market apply. The central banks of these four countries may also engage in transactions in Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on February 2, 1967. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA invisibles that are eligible for access to the official market may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accord- ance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the documents must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no transactions with Mexico in Costa Rican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. Some imports, however, are made on a barter basis; these require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exchange at the official rate is granted for the c.i.f. value of specified essential commodities f rom any source and of all imports from Central American countries and from Panama that are covered by the pro- visions of regional integration agreements. Imports of the specified essential commodities must be registered with the Central Bank within two months of arrival at a national port. Their registration serves as an application for official exchange. The Central Bank grants permis- sion to purchase exchange cover in order of registration. All other goods may be freely imported, provided that they are paid for through the free market. Official exchange is not granted for commodities on the list of essential imports that are also produced in acceptable quality either in Costa Rica or Central America, provided that these com- modities are available in satisfactory volume and at adequate prices; prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce is required to purchase official exchange for the importation of any goods on the list that are also produced in Costa Rica. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exchange at the official rate is only granted for freight and insurance on imports effected at the official rate; for dividends, interest, and amortization on registered foreign capital; servicing of debts con- tracted before January 2, 1967; indispensable payments of the Central Government; and normal expenses in foreign currency on export trans- actions settled through the official market. The allocation for interest and dividends is 10 per cent of the registered capital. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are necessary 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the off ic ial rate; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; (2) sugar requires an export license f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled; (3) lumber and root of ipeca- cuanha require export licenses f rom the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses f rom the Civil Aviation Boa rd; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses f rom the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license f rom the Tobacco Defense Boa rd; (8) cer- tain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin require a permit f rom the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; and (9) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year f rom their transactions in Costa R ica; (2) a sum equivalent to the depreciation on their investments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on sugar and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within 60 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained or sold in the free market: diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; fam i ly remittances and other personal remittances; settlements on insurance claims, pro- vided that the premium was financed in the f ree market; and commis- sions received by agents of foreign firms. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital through the free market may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign'capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amorti- zation. Incoming capital must be registered to become entitled to servicing at the official rate. Incoming capital may be sold freely in the free market if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital returning from abroad. The only outward transfers of capital permitted to be made at the official rate are repayments on certain private and public debts and amortization on registered foreign capital; for the latter, the amounts are determined individually by the Central Bank. Changes during 1966 March 24> A trade agreement of the most-favored-nation type was signed with Yugoslavia. The agreement required parliamentary ratifi- cation in Costa Rica and did not enter into force in 1966. It stipulated that payments would take place in U.S. dollars, subject to technical arrangements agreed between the two central banks. April 27. The President confirmed Law No. 3676, thereby putting into effect a bilateral payments agreement with Poland that had been signed on August 26,1965. June 14- An implementing agreement between the Central Bank of Costa Rica and the Bank Handlowy w Warszawie of Poland entered into force. This agreement provided for the establishment of clearing accounts in accordance with the earlier agreement with Poland (see April 27, above). July 11. Decree No. 26 increased the consumption tax on passenger automobiles by 70 per cent; the tax now amounted to 0 11,050 for cars weighing more than 1,650 kilograms. December 26. The Board of the Central Bank of Costa Rica approved a three-stage economic emergency program. The first stage would involve the imposition of restrictions on the sale of official exchange; the sale of certain classes of exchange receipts would be permitted to take place in the free market, and certain imports would have to be financed through the free market (previously, official and free market were unified, although legally the latter had not been abolished). The second stage would be the introduction of surcharges on the c.i.f. value of certain nonessential imports to be specified by the Central Bank; payments for all imports and invisibles would again be made through 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the official exchange market. The third stage would involve the imple- mentation of measures of an indirect nature aimed at restoring the equilibrium of the balance of payments and of the budgetary position. COSTA RICA NOTE.—The following changes took place in 1967: January 2. The first stage of the emergency program went into effect. The free exchange market was reactivated. The Central Bank ceased to sell official exchange, except for (1) the c.i.f. value of specified essen- tial imports, (2) goods imported prior to January 2, (3) contractual remittances of interest, dividends, and amortization on past and future registered foreign capital investments, (4) payment of debts contracted with first-class foreign financial institutions prior to January 2, (5) indispensable payments of the Central Government, (6) normal expenses payable in foreign currency on export transactions settled through the official market, (7) imports of commodities originating in Central America and covered by the free trade treaties of that area, and (8) imports of products originating in Panama and covered by the trade agreements concluded with that country. The Central Bank was authorized to add goods to, and delete goods from, the list of essential imports. Access to the free market was unrestricted; any type of payment for which official exchange was not granted could be made through it. Export proceeds were required to be surrendered within 60 days of exportation, or, if the goods were sold on credit, at the expiration of the term of the credit. All other receipts of foreign exchange had to be surrendered within 60 days of accrual, except the following, which could be retained or sold in the free market: (1) diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses, (2) tourist expenditures, (3) family remittances and personal remittances received by residents, (4) insurance claim settlements, provided that the premium had been financed in the free market, (5) incoming foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate, (6) national capital returning from abroad, (7) commissions received by agents for foreign firms, and (8) any other type of receipt that the Central Bank might determine. January 2. Imports of the listed goods eligible for official exchange were required to be registered within two months of arrival of the goods at a national port, registration serving as an application for official exchange; authorization to purchase exchange cover would be granted in order of registration. January 2. The Central Bank reminded the public that it was empowered to authorize exporters who imported their raw materials 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA through the free market to sell part of their export proceeds in the free market. January 2. Remittances at the official rate of interest and dividends together on foreign capital registered through the official market could not exceed 10 per cent a year on the registered amount. The maximum percentage for transfers at the official rate of amortization on such capital would be determined by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. January 2. Persons owing debts abroad had to register these with the Central Bank. The Bank would grant official exchange to service these debts in the light of the availability of exchange and the prospects for the balance of payments. January 2. Payments at the official rate to Central American coun- tries had to be made in colones through the Central American clearing- house. The Central Bank could permit payments at the official rate to Mexico to be made in colones through the clearinghouse. January 18. Certain items were added to the list of essential imports entitled to official exchange. January 18. It was announced that official exchange would not be granted for commodities that were also produced either in Costa Rica or in Central America in acceptable quality and available in satis- factory volume at adequate prices. Prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce was required to purchase official exchange for the importation of goods on the list of essentials if these were also produced in Costa Rica. February 2. The Government withdrew the bill it had submitted for Parliamentary consideration that would have provided for the intro- duction of surcharges on imports. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound or £C 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31,1966 was US$2.79% buying, US$2.78% selling, per fC 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus; trade controls, by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settle- ments with countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements must be made through the appropriate account.1 Payments to other coun- tries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to other countries except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account, in any specified currency,2 or in any other currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a specified currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds 1 Cyprus has bilateral payments arrangements involving settlements through clearing accounts with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with (1) payments f rom External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or d r a ft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of any country made by check, bill, or d ra ft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevocable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodesia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11,1965, (3) living expen- ses in Cyprus of the account holder or his family, (4) insurance pre- miums payable to companies in the Sterling Area on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his family, (5) bank charges due to authorized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and encashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rho- desian Accounts. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain payments of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. These accounts may be in the form of deposits with local banks earning interest which may be freely transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Most imports from other countries may be made freely under an open gen- eral license. Individual import licenses are, however, required for all goods originating in countries with which Cyprus maintains bilateral payments arrangements (see footnote 1) and for some 50 items from all sources (certain agricultural and textile products, a few metals, and 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS most nonelectrical mach inery); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of the others licenses are granted freely. Indi- vidual import licenses are not required for bona fide gifts up to £C 10 in value and not to be sold, for returned goods, or for certain special transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed mainly for the pur- pose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 400 a year, and the upper limit is £C 1,400 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned —e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C 450; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,400; in other countries, £C 850. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on production of sufficient documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 250 a person annually; for business travel £C 5 to £C 25 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equiva- lent of £ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes which they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to licensing by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to licenses issued by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports to any destination are free from licensing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed £C 75. All other exports require an export license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; goods destined for countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a further control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see Prescription of Currency, above). With minor exceptions, exports to the Sterling Area are unrestricted. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus currency notes. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control author- ities. In considering such application, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competi- tion with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participa- tion in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capi- tal is normally approved; participation above this limit may be per- mitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to £C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. Changes during 1966 March 24- Imports of goods originating in or shipped from South A f r ica were prohibited. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on all payments to countries outside the French Franc Area, except payments by the Government; the minimum charge is CFAF 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses, import certificates, and export licenses are issued by the Department of Economic Affa irs and approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with countries with which payments agree- ments are in operation are made through special accounts under the terms of the bilateral payments agreements concluded with those countries.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market— or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. xThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There are payments agreements with Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, and the United Arab Republic. At the end of 1966, all these agreements were inoperative. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports f rom all sources are prohibited.3 Imports of all other goods f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a joint French-Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commodities4 are subject to individual ceilings; for each of these commodities, this amount is made up of a global quota for the EEC countries other than France and a global quota for all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. The quotas determine the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. Certain textiles are licensed freely outside the import program. For other goods admitted without quantitative restriction import certificates are issued. All imports from countries outside the French Franc Area must be registered (domiciled) with an authorized bank. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized banks; however, import payments up to the equivalent of CFAF 1 million may be made when the import transaction is registered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are authorized freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, 8 In addition to such items as arms, explosives, and drugs, the prohibition covers phosphorous matches, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, diamonds, gold, wheat, flour, potatoes, and saccharine. Imports of canned fish in tins of over one kilo- gram are prohibited unless of French origin. * These commodities are piece goods (printed and unprinted) and vehicles and spare parts. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY dividends, and royalties are also approved freely. Foreigners may transfer all their savings from salaries, provided that the transfer is made within three months of receipt of the salary. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Exchange for pre- miums in respect of bona fide insurance transactions is granted freely. Travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allowance in an amount equivalent to CFAF 120,000 per annum; the allowance is released in four equal installments, each of which may be taken up only if evidence is submitted to show that the preceding installment has been fully utilized for genuine tourist expenditures. Exchange for business travel is granted up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 for each trip. Exchange for family support is granted up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each depend- ent. Exchange for study abroad is granted freely upon submission of documentary evidence of expenses. Travelers to the other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion5 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, bank- notes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in French francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all other countries require licenses but are not subject to quantitative restriction. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain for their payments outside the French Franc Area 10 per cent of the export proceeds they receive during the year. 5 The West African Monetary Union consists of Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of countries outside the French Franc Area in respect of services, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those coun- tries from foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be sur- rendered within one month of receipt. Travelers from the other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (see footnote 5) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Dahomey and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Dahomey and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such invest- ments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three prefer- ential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption during the first 5 years of operation f rom the tax on industrial and commercial profits as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, Plan C guarantees marketing stabilization for products, f r ee choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Transfers abroad of proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ments are authorized freely. Changes during 1966 August 8. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts were abolished on which exporters could retain a portion of their export proceeds received in non-French Franc Area currencies. Instead, 10 per 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY cent of their annual receipts of such currencies was left at the disposal of exporters to cover their requirements outside the French Franc Area. December 15. A new West A f r ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.128660 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone or DKr 6.90714 — US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 6.8575 buying, and DKr 6.9575 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for the Canadian dollar and specified European currencies 2 are quoted daily. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage with one another and with their foreign correspondents in convertible and externally convertible currencies, including Danish kroner, both spot and forward for up to 12 months. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with resi- dents must have a commercial basis. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange control authority. However, adminis- trative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Per- mission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency For exchange control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral account countries3 and the convertible area (all other countries). 1 Denmark accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 'Brazil, Eastern Germany, and, for merchandise payments only, Colombia. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Payments to countries in the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting Danish kroner to any Convertible or Bilateral Krone Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments from countries in the convertible area may be received in any currency of the area or in Danish kroner, except from a Bilateral Krone Account. Payments to the bilateral account countries must be made in accord- ance with the payments agreement between Denmark and the country concerned, usually in Danish kroner through a Bilateral Krone Account; noncommercial payments to Brazil may be made in convert- ible currencies. Payments from bilateral account countries may be received in accordance with the relevant payments agreement or in convertible currency, including Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Most accounts held in Danish kroner for nonresidents are convertible. Bilateral Krone Accounts are maintained for a few countries (see footnote 3). Both Convertible Krone Accounts and Bilateral Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insur- ance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each quarter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Convertible Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts or to Bilateral Krone Accounts, for purchases of any foreign currency, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark from any foreign country. Bilateral Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Krone Account, with transfers from another Bilateral Krone Account of the same country and with the proceeds from sales of the currency of that country or of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to any foreign country. They may be debited for transfers to other Bilateral Krone Accounts of the same country and for purchases of the currency of that country, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark from the country of the account holder. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income f rom capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants within the first year after emigration and which are not transferable abroad because they amount to more than the allocation granted for the transfer of such funds. Balances on Capital Accounts may be used for the same private payments in Denmark as those generally allowed f rom Convertible and Bilateral Krone Accounts, but may be used only within certain limits for commercial payments in excess of DKr 2,000. Within the limits set for transfers of emigrants' funds, i.e., up to DKr 40,000 a person in the year af ter emigration, balances may be transferred abroad, used for commercial payments in Denmark, or transferred to other Capital or to Foreign Accounts. After one year, emigrants may transfer remaining balances on Capital Accounts without limitation, and the account is then reclassified either as a Convertible Krone Account or as a Bilateral Krone Account. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept mainly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules governing such accounts follow broadly the same principles as those established for Convertible Krone Accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on a restricted list containing mainly nonindustrial goods may be imported without license from the "Free List Area," which comprises most countries outside the Soviet bloc.4 For imports from the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (regional) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List Area." 5 Imports from countries outside the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are generally granted in accordance with bilateral trade agreements and traditional trade rela- tions, and apply to the specific country concerned. Licenses are issued *The following countries are not included in the "Free List Area"; Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, Paraguay, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, ILSjSJR., United Arab Republic, and North Viet-Nam. 6 Only wine, some fish, and cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK freely for a large number of commodities when these are imported from, and originate in, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Rumania. Imports of bread grain, feedgrain, and grain products are subject to equalization charges representing the difference between specified minimum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Danish ports. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within two years f rom the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, a i rc ra f t, large machines, and ma jor plants. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within a year f rom the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments for most invisibles to be made freely; only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained in convertible or externally convertible currencies for travel to any country, including the bilateral account countries. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ma jor agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Exports of a few industrial products to the "Free List Area" and of all products to other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regulations being to safeguard the fu lf i l lment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, to serve strategic purposes, and to avoid 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK re-export and transit transactions involving loss of convertible or externally convertible currencies. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obliga- tion does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount in Danish banknotes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized f rom the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repurchase the trans- feror's own securities to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, etc., or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, pro- vided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person during the first year after emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after emigration. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise con- cerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely pur- chase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of investments in Denmark. They may purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of com- modities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, further, grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to commercial and industrial enterprises connected with the lender as subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to members of their families. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special permission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrowing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are non- residents at the time of receipt may be paid freely. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulations, the details of which are established by the National Bank or, when exports of specified multiple currency Danish bonds are concerned, by the Minis- try of the Interior. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign secur- ities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold to residents only with the National Bank's permission. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations concerning emigrants are not circumvented. Changes during 1966 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Rumania was terminated. January 1. Certain imports originating in Bulgaria, Poland, and Rumania were liberalized. January 1. Further imports from the "Free List Area" were lib- eralized. January 17. Levies were introduced on exports of pigs and pork to EEC countries. March 1. Exports of poultry to the United Kingdom were limited to an annual quota. March 17. Imports from Eastern Germany were restricted to correct a temporary imbalance of bilateral trade. June 1. Imports of certain commodities originating in Czechoslo- vakia were liberalized. June 23. Specified foreign bearer securities no longer were required to be declared to the National Bank upon importation into Denmark. July 1. A number of additional imports from the "Free List Area" were liberalized, including specified footwear. It was announced that this liberalization would be extended, with effect from January 1, 1967, to certain other commodities, including chocolate and foodstuffs con- taining chocolate. The global quotas for the period to June 30, 1967 were published. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. November 25. Rhodesia was excluded from the "Free List Area." December 31. With minor exceptions, the industrial free trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association went into effect. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso or RD$1.00 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value, plus a commission of %2 of 1 Per cen^ Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to normal banking commissions which result in effective rates within 1 per cent on either side of the par value. All payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1,1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency No obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of cigarettes and of automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000 are prohibited. Licensing controls are maintained over a few other commodities for reasons of health or security. With these exceptions, imports are not subject to license or prohibition. All payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, which is granted automatically, subject only to an ex post scrutiny to estab- lish the genuine nature of the transaction. Payments for many imports are settled on a draft for collection basis; when the d ra ft is presented for collection, the importer pays the fu ll amount in pesos to the commercial bank; the bank then transfers this deposit to the Central Bank which releases exchange for the remit- tance. Other imports are paid for by letter of credit or a direct trans- fer of exchange. Except in respect of direct transfers, the commercial banks transmit daily to the Central Bank copies of importers' applica- 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC tions for exchange accompanied by the equivalent in local currency. The Central Bank authorizes the commercial banks to open letters of credit and, when these have been negotiated, it transfers foreign exchange to the banks; all letters of credit except those covering industrial machinery and raw materials imported against acceptance letters of credit with a maturity of 90 days or more must be paid in fu ll by the importer upon the opening of the credit. When imports are paid for by direct transfer, the Central Bank makes exchange available upon receiving the request f rom the commercial bank, and charges the latter's account for the peso equivalent of the amount involved. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available within not more than five working days from the receipt of the application, but since the middle of May 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange. Importers of certain commodities are required to make payment by means of fu l ly prepaid letters of credit. Imports in this group include automobiles, motorcycles, household appliances, finished textiles and clothing, and many luxury consumer goods. Importers of most of these commodities are also required to prepay 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and surcharges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. Virtually all imports are subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internos) ranging from 20 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 51.5 per cent. Imports of auto- mobiles are subject to a further surcharge of RD$700 per unit. Imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 5 per cent. Certain foodstuffs are exempt f rom import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of seasonal shortage. Advance import deposits of 40 per cent or 80 per cent of the f.o.b. value are required for many imports. The advance deposits are collected by the Customs Administration prior to the clearance, of the goods, and are lodged in the Central Bank for a period of six months. A number of goods are exempt, including certain foodstuffs, medical supplies, indus- trial and agricultural machinery and spares, commercial vehicles, industrial raw materials and packing materials, and petroleum products. Payments for Invisibles For travel, the commercial banks may sell up to US$100 to an individual resident every 12 months. For business travel, the Central Bank may approve applications for additional amounts. Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. All payments for other invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which in most cases 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC is given free ly. The Central Bank normally approves requests for exchange for fam i ly or personal remittances fa ir ly free ly in amounts considered reasonable for the purpose. Exchange is granted for medical expenses abroad and for students' expenditures in reasonable amounts upon the provision of appropriate evidence of the genuineness of the transaction. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved freely in conformity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends on foreign investments are approved on presentation of a balance sheet which has been agreed with the tax authorities. In some cases the transfer may be effected in monthly installments. In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days from receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of the travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the opera- tion of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agree- ment. Within 48 hours of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days f rom the date of embarkation without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles are subject to sur- render requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capital remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual installments. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Changes during 1966 April 19. The exemption of specified food products from import duties, advance deposit requirements, and import surcharges was extended for a six-month period. May 80. Nontraditional agricultural and industrial exports were exempted from most export taxes. June 29. Existing customs duties and import surcharges on industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment and spare parts were replaced by a un iform 5 per cent import tax. July 14. The basic travel allowance of US$100 a person every 6 months was reduced to US$100 every 12 months. July 21. The import of automobiles with an f.o.b. value of more than RD$2,000 was prohibited. July 21. The prepaid letter of credit requirement was extended to cover imports of finished textiles, clothing, and motorcycles. September 4- The prepaid letter of credit requirement was fur ther extended to cover imports of luxury consumer goods. Importers of most goods covered by the prepaid letter of credit pro- cedure were required to make an advance payment to customs, at the time of opening the letter of credit, equivalent to 80 per cent of the estimated amount of customs duties and import surcharges payable on the goods. An additional surcharge of RD$700 per unit was imposed on all permitted imports of automobiles. October 19. The exemption of specified food products f rom import duties, advance deposit requirements, and import surcharges was extended for a six-month period. November 17. Importers were required to submit to the customs authorities price lists containing a detailed description of the goods being imported. These lists must be certified by the Chamber of Com- merce at the point of origin and legalized by the Dominican consul for that area. December 81. Decree No. 812 provided that henceforth exemption f rom import duty could only be granted under the terms of industrial incentive laws or by virtue of fo rmal decisions of the Central Govern- ment. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0493706 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre or S/ 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to all exports, to payments for most imports and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all contractual registered private foreign debt operations entered into after July 14, 1961. Exports of rice are subsidized. For all other transactions there is a free market, in which the rates on December 31, 1966 were S/ 20.33 buying, and S/20.39 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through which they must be settled. Most transactions pass through the official market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador /The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Transactions that do not qualify for the official market may enter the free market —conducted mainly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Some imports eligible for official exchange may also be paid for through the free market, in which case they are exempt from advance deposits. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, and Poland must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Colombia and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music, which may be imported freely without a license. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports exceeding a value of US$100. A few goods may only be imported from LAFTA countries, 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits, monetary stabilization surcharges, and additional import taxes have been paid and that the required prepayments of import duties have been made. The licenses auto- matically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports are prohibited. Imports for which licenses are not required are paid for with exchange purchased in the free market. For some goods, import licenses are issued which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate ("no exchange licenses," licencias sin divisas, or permisos de importation no reembolsables); the exchange for such imports must be obtained in the free market, or the goods must be financed abroad. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or l ift import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. The advance deposit requirement applies to almost all private imports financed with official exchange. The exceptions are imports under the Agricultural Surplus Agreement with the United States, imports of certain goods to be used for the construction and equipment of hotels, all imports (other than capital goods) financed with foreign credit of more than a year, imports of special types of cotton f rom LAFTA countries, all imports from Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by international organizations or by suppliers' credit of at least one year, and imports of medical supplies and equipment made by official health or social service institutions. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the importer when applying for an import license; the importer must at the same time lodge with the Central Bank a prepayment of part of the import duty. The rates for the advance deposit required are currently 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports in List I (25 per cent for the same goods if covered by foreign credit of 180 days to one yea r ), 70 per cent for specified articles in List II, and 140 per cent for other imports in List II.1 The prescribed prepayment of import duty is 10 per cent of the duty on commodities in List I and 45 per cent of the duty on those in List II. Advance deposits are released pari passu with the making of the import pay- ments. 1With effect from February 16, 1967, the deposit for List I items was reduced to 35 per cent (15 per cent for goods with foreign suppliers' credit of 180 days to one year); List II was divided into four groups of goods requiring deposits of 50 per cent, 70 per cent, 100 per cent, or 140 per cent. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Most imports are also subject to mone tary s tab i l iza t ion surcharges and to additional import taxes. The surcharge is 10 per cent of the c .i .f. value for List I items and 20 per cent for List II items. Sur- charges must normally be paid in sucres to the Central Bank when application is made for an import license. Surcharges on List I items financed with suppliers' credit of a" year or more may be paid when the final import payment is made. Exempt f rom surcharges are diplo- matic imports and imports financed by loans f rom fo re ign governments or international organizations. Most goods on List II are subject to an additional import tax of 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the c . i . f. value, payable in sucres; the others are exempt. Exempt f rom this tax are diplomatic imports and imports financed by foreign governments or international organizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles that may be made through the official market require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank; the license is granted freely for all authorized transactions. These transactions include invisibles connected with trade (e.g., fre ight and insu rance ); necessary expenses (i.e., travel, tuition, and living expenses up to US$100 a mon th) of Ecuadoran students abroad who are registered with the Central Bank; most payments of the Govern- ment and of off ic ial entities; payment of interest on registered foreign loans up to 7.5 per cent annua l ly; or payments of profits and dividends on registered private fore ign investments up to 12 per cent annua l ly; and contractual private fore ign debt operations entered into and reg- istered af ter July 14, 1961. Other payments for invisibles may be made free ly through the f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except those of certain fore ign oil companies require licenses to ensure, among other things, the f u ll surrender of the exchange proceeds; licenses are issued free ly. Minimum surrender prices (aforos) are established for exports of bananas (according to port of shipment, destination, and season ); they d i f fer for bananas shipped on the stem and those shipped in boxes. Exchange correspond- ing to those prices must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the f ree market. Exports of bananas are subject to minimum export prices expressed in sucres. Exports of coffee, cacao, bananas shipped on the stem, sugar, and gold and silver filigree work are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent (washed, or 9.6 per cent unwa shed ), 10 per cent, 21.4 per cent, 3.4 per cent, and 10 per 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR cent, respectively.2 Exports of bananas in boxes are subject to a specific export duty expressed in sucres per pound (differentiated according to destination and province of origin). All exports of bananas are subject to certain additional specific taxes. Exports of coffee to "new markets" are exempt from export tax. Exports of rice by the National Develop- ment Bank receive a subsidy equal to the difference between its cost to the National Development Bank and the f.o.b. price; the aver- age subsidy paid in 1966 was S/ 17.49 per quintal or S/ 2.91 per US$1. The proceeds from exports of rice are surrendered at S/ 20.73 per U.S. dollar. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official entities have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts from invisibles (including those from tourism) may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Bank at the official buying rate if registration with the Central Bank is desired. This also applies to foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses. Foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can refuse to register foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the interest of the Ecuadoran economy at that particular time. All unregistered private capital may enter without limitation through the free market. An Industrial Promo- tion Law provides for certain exemptions from import duties and import charges to three categories of industrial investment. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of registered foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration. Exchange at the official rate is also granted for profit remittances up to 12 per cent a year on registered capital, and for interest up to 7.5 per cent on registered foreign loans. Contractual repayments of registered foreign loans may also be made at the official rate. All other capital remittances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the free market. 2 The 21.4 per cent export tax on bananas is levied on an assumed f.o.b. value expressed in sucres per pound that varies with province of origin, port of shipment, destination, and season. The official average weight per stem is 66.38 pounds for exports to the United States and 56.48 pounds for exports to other countries. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Capital receipts of the Government and of official entities are con- verted at the official buying rate, and payments at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from loans granted to the Government and official entities by foreign financing organizations are converted by the Central Bank at the official selling rate of S/ 18.18, instead of at the official buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Cen- tral Bank receives from the Treasury or the borrower a payment of S/ 0.36 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the normal spread between the official buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are permitted to hold up to 10 per cent of their capital in foreign exchange. Changes during 1966 January 20. Regulation No. 456 of the Monetary Board estab- lished new surrender requirements for the exchange proceeds from exports of bananas shipped in boxes; the amount of exchange to be surrendered was US$0.0256 per pound for sales to the United States and Canada, and US$0.0204 per pound for sales in other markets. The requirements for bananas exported on the stem were not affected. February 23. Decree No. 422 imposed an import tax at rates of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List I commodities and of 7.5 per cent for List II commodities. The tax was payable upon application for the import license. Certain exemptions from import duties were eliminated or reduced. March 2. Regulation No. 458 of the Monetary Board increased the advance deposit requirements for all imports in List I from 15 per cent to 50 per cent, those for semiessential goods in List II from 30 per cent to 70 per cent, and those for all other items in List II from 80 per cent to 140 per cent. The deposits were calculated on the equivalent at the official rate of the c.i.f. value. They were released when the import payment was made, or pari passu with the installments when import payments were made in installments. March 9. Regulation No. 459 of the Monetary Board exempted im- ports of means of transportation valued at more than US$500,000 c.i.f. a unit from the advance deposit requirements if financed with foreign credit with terms not less than five years. This facility was canceled by Regulation No. 470 of July 7, 1966. March 9. The commodities in List I were freed from the new import tax. The 7.5 per cent tax on List II imports was raised to 12 per cent for the luxury items on that list, i.e., the items subject to an advance deposit of 140 per cent, but remained unchanged for those 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR subject to an 80 per cent deposit. Provisions which eliminated certain exemptions from the import taxes were rescinded. March 10. Decree No. 578 based all fiscal charges on bananas exported in boxes on their weight. For these bananas, the 21.4 per cent export duty on the f.o.b. value was replaced by a specific export duty (impuesto fiscal) expressed in sucres per pound; this duty was differ- entiated according to destination and province of origin. The 21.4 per cent export duty continued to apply to bananas exported on the stem. April 7. Decree No. 29 abolished the import taxes introduced in March; taxes already paid were to be reimbursed. April 21. Regulation No. 463 of the Monetary Board deleted certain nonessential items from List II; their importation was prohibited. April 21. Decree No. 118-A shifted all imports of List II items from the official to the free market. List II goods now required a 100 per cent advance deposit in foreign exchange, which had to be purchased in the free market and must be lodged when the import license was granted. Advance deposits on List I goods continued to be required in sucres but were now calculated by applying the official selling rate to their c.i.f. value. May 17. Regulation No. 466 of the Monetary Board raised the amount of exchange to be surrendered by exporters of bananas in boxes to US$0.03072 per pound for sales to the United States and Canada and to US$0.02448 per pound for sales to other markets. May 17. All imports financed with foreign credits of 180 days or more from the date of arrival, or with loans from international insti- tutions, were exempted from the advance import deposit requirements. The advance deposit requirements were extended to imports by all public institutions except health or social services. May 17. By Regulation No. 467 of the Monetary Board, the fu ll exchange proceeds from the export of shrimps were required to be surrendered. May 20. Decree No. 297 introduced a monetary stabilization sur- charge (recargo de estabilizacion monetaria) of 20 per cent on the c.i.f. value of all imports in List II. An additional import tax (gravamen adicional) of 10 per cent was levied on the c.i.f. value of some goods in List II, and one of 15 per cent on that of certain other goods in that list; the remaining goods on List II were exempt from the additional tax. The surcharge was calculated at the rate of S/ 18.18 per US$1, and the additional tax at S/ 18.00 per US$1. The surcharge had to be paid when the import license was issued. Exempt from the surcharge were diplomatic and similar shipments. The proceeds of the surcharges 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR were to be credited to a Deferred Stabilization Account at the Central Bank. Exempt from the additional tax were only goods exempt from import duty. All imports of goods in List II were shifted back to the official mar- ket; these goods no longer required an advance deposit in foreign exchange but became again subject to the advance deposit require- ments introduced on March 2 (70 per cent or 140 per cent, depending on the goods). May 31. Decree No. 329 shifted a number of imports from List II to List I; these included certain industrial chemicals, rubber, glass, gold, silver, and iron. May 81. Decree No. 391 levied a monetary stabilization surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value on imports of all List I goods. Exempt were diplomatic and similar imports. June 3. Decree No. 402 levied an import tax on cigarettes; they remained subject to the 20 per cent stabilization surcharge and to the existing tax on foreign cigarettes. June 14. Decree No. 464 established that the proceeds f rom exports of rice could be sold at a rate of S/ 21 per U.S. dollar. June H. Decree No. 464 established that the proceeds f rom the stabilization surcharges could be applied to the subsidization of agri- cultural exports, subject to the approval of at least seven members of the Monetary Board. June 30. Decree No. 569 exempted the following imports from sta- bilization surcharges: crude mineral oil, all imports that did not require an import license, and all imports not financed with exchange granted at the official rate. June 30. The Central Bank granted, upon the importer's request, import licenses for certain goods in Lists I and II which did not entitle the importer to exchange at the official rate (licencias sin divisas or permisos de importation no reembolsables). Such imports were exempt from stabilization surcharge and advance deposit but not from import duty or additional import tax. The foreign exchange required for the import payment had to be obtained in the free market and must be deposited with the Central Bank at the time of application for the import license. These measures were not implemented simul- taneously throughout the country. July L The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effec t; within its framework, Ecuador's reciprocal credit agreements subse- quently went into operation. 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR July 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Ecuador and Colombia. It took effect on October 1. July 29. Decree No. 793 exempted from export tax coffee shipments to markets not covered by the International Coffee Agreement ("new markets"). August 12. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Ecuador and Peru. It took effect on September 1. August 16. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Eastern Germany. August 22. Decree No. 688 of July 15 became effective; which estab- lished that 40 per cent of the proceeds from surcharges must be trans- ferred from the Central Bank to the Treasury. September 8. Decree No. 1016 took effect, which raised the propor- tion of the proceeds from surcharges to be transferred to the Treasury from 40 per cent to 65 per cent. September 20. By virtue of Monetary Board Regulation No. 475, imports paid for with free market exchange and covered by "no exchange licenses" were again made subject to the advance deposit requirements applied prior to July 14, 1966; they remained exempt, however, from monetary stabilization surcharges. Regulation No. 475 stipulated that advance deposits were not required for List I imports financed with foreign credit of one year or more af ter arrival of the merchandise; previously, the minimum term had been 180 days after arrival and had applied to both List I and List II imports. September 22. Decree No. 1052 of September 22 took effect, which raised the above-mentioned proportion of proceeds from surcharges (see September 8) from 65 per cent to 90 per cent. September 22. The Monetary Board decided that some of the funds in the Deferred Stabilization Account that need not be transferred to the Treasury would be used to subsidize exports; the goods subsidized were rice and coffee. October 3. Decree No. 1182 limited the exemption from surcharges and additional import taxes to (1) imports financed by loans from foreign governments or international organizations, and (2) diplomatic and similar imports. This eliminated the exemption f rom surcharges for imports financed with free market exchange (sin divisas oficiales), imports not requiring an import license, imports of oil, and imports from LAFTA countries of goods on which Ecuador had granted con- 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR cessions. Also terminated was the exemption from additional tax for List II imports financed sin divisas ofidales. Payment of the surcharge on List I imports financed with foreign suppliers7 credits of a year or more could take place when final payment for the import was made, instead of at the moment of licensing, as required for all other items subject to surcharges. All imports financed with foreign suppliers' credit of up to a year became subject to the advance deposit requirements; imports financed with such credit for periods over a year were declared exempt f rom advance deposits. October 19. Regulation No. 476 of the Monetary Board prescribed the requirements for the registration of private foreign capital imported as loans or investments, whether in monetary fo rm or not, and modified the benefits resulting from such registration. Foreign exchange at the official rate could be obtained for the withdrawal of registered foreign capital five years af ter the date of registration; official exchange would also be granted for profit remittances up to 12 per cent (previously 15 per cent) a year, and for interest on foreign loans up to 7.5 per cent (previously 7 per cent) a year. International organizations could request a waiver of these conditions and limits f rom the Monetary Board. October 20. Regulation No. 477 of the Monetary Board exempted from the advance deposit requirements and import prohibitions estab- lished by its Regulations Nos. 458 and 463 those goods originating in and shipped from Paraguay on which Ecuador had granted concessions under the Treaty of Montevideo. October 21. Regulation No. 483 lowered the advance import deposit for List I goods (all of which at that time were subject to the 50 per cent deposit requirement) to 25 per cent for goods financed with fo r- eign credits of between 180 days and a yea r; List I goods financed with foreign credits of a year or more remained exempt from advance deposit. Certain goods in Lists I and II that were required for the con- struction and equipment of hotels were exempted from advance deposit by Regulation No. 480. October 27. Regulation No. 484 restricted the exemption from advance deposit requirements on automobiles, furniture, and house- hold effects imported by residents to imports by persons who had been abroad not less than one year. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR November 7. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Poland. December 10. Imports of goods covered by agricultural surplus agreements and imports of medical supplies and equipment by social or health services were exempt from advance deposit by virtue of Regulation No. 485. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon or 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are 0 2.49 buying, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits and are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was pre- pared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Department; in some instances the license also requires the approval of the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled i n, Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico are also settled in Salvadoran colones through the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents may be utilized freely, but the com- mercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with author- ized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. The maximum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Imports and Import Payments Imports must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, liquors, cotton for indus- trial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharine. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, provided that (unless the goods are imported from other countries of the Central American Common Market) the terms of payment do not exceed certain maxima: (1) Imports of raw materials or equipment for use in agriculture, stock raising, or industry (including construction), and essential products as determined by the Board of the Central Reserve Bank, are authorized by the Exchange Control Department when the terms of payment do not exceed 360 days f rom the date of entry of the merchandise into a customs warehouse. (2) Imports of the same commodities with longer payment terms are not authorized by the Exchange Control Department unless the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy has been obtained. (3) Imports of all other com- modities are authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed 120 days. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports from Central American countries and US$2,000 for imports f rom all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the importer as a guarantee. The deposit varies according to the nature of the goods: 10 per cent on raw materials not produced domestically; 20 per cent on other raw materials and machinery; 50 per cent on manufactured goods not classified as luxury items; and 80 per cent on luxury goods. Imports paid for against letters of credit are subject to a prior deposit of 25 per cent (10 per cent for imports of machinery, equipment, and raw mate- rials) . When the importer is a manufac turer rather than a merchant, the prior deposit is usually waived. The deposit is refunded upon comple- tion of the import transaction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Net profits may generally be remitted up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital; higher transfers require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. The commercial banks provide exchange up to the equivalent of US$200 a person each six 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR months for tourist travel. For larger amounts, authorization by the Exchange Control Department is required; as a general rule, under such authorization, each person is granted up to US$30 a day while traveling abroad, subject to a maximum of US$2,000. Persons who require exchange in excess of US$2,000, for medical treatment abroad or for other special reasons, must deposit 25 per cent of the amount exceeding US$2,000 with the Central Reserve Bank at the time the authorization is issued; the deposit is refunded when the Department receives the required proof. The Department also authorizes transfers of up to US$500 a month plus US$50 for each child to Salvadorans with per- manent residence abroad. Students are allowed US$200 a month; those with families are allowed US$250 a month plus US$50 for each child. Foreign exchange in excess of the limits given above is seldom granted. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to pur- chase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commer- cial bank. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to take out up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a small number of food- stuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms must not exceed 90 days. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to bring in up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital in the form of foreign investment is subject to the advance approval of, and registration by, the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) the remittance of net profits up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy at the time of registration of the investment) and (2) amortization payments and repatriation of the proceeds from the sale of the assets of the enter- prise after payment of taxes (including, where appropriate, capital gains t ax ); the repatriation of registered foreign investments is not limited to the amount of the originally registered investment. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to enjoy the same facilities. For long-term foreign loans, the Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign currency for the payment of interest and amortization. The same treatment is granted to short-term foreign loans that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department. Changes during 1966 April 15. The Central Reserve Bank required that each request for authority from the Exchange Control Department to remit foreign currency for imports (unless advance payment was permitted) must include a copy of the invoice, a nonnegotiable copy of the bill of lading, a copy of the order, and a copy of the advice of arrival of the mer- chandise. May 25. Circular No. 73 of the customs administration imposed restrictions on imports of certain sweetened products. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar or Eth$2.5 = US$l. The official rates are Eth$2.48125 buying, and Eth$2.51875 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in foreign exchange appro- priate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars or sterling. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency which is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between non- resident accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any converti- ble currency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; for goods which were previously subject to advance deposit require- ments, however, the usance must not exceed 90 days. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable income, subject to a maximum 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA of Eth$27,000 a year, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with an autonomous government organization and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency; for approved projects, they may also transfer amortization at the rate of 10 per cent per annum. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$100 a day for a maximum period of six weeks if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$l,050 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$735 a year for those under 16, if the jou rney is made for pleasure and /or vacation. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give details of the goods to be exported, the destina- tion, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within three months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Capital All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises financed by foreign capital; these concessions include exemption f rom taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits af ter taxation (see section on 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency. Emigrants' allowances, transfers of legacies, and savings of foreign employees upon retirement are permitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Changes during 1966 May 4- Ethiopia and seven other East A f r ican countries (Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia) signed a preliminary agreement on the establishment of an East Afr ican Eco- nomic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.277710 gram of fine gold per Finnish Markka or Fmk 3.20 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for certain other currencies 2 vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Finland and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Off ic ia l, fixed selling rates are applied to the U.S.S.R. ruble and the U.S. dollar when used as a unit of account on bilateral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and certain other convertible or externally convertible cur- rencies.2 Forward transactions may be concluded free ly for periods not exceeding 12 months; forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegat- ing authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries 3 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement or in Finnish markkas through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. xln view of the changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on January 15, 1967. 2 These are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 8 Finland has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. The payments agreement with Colombia is applicable, on the import side, to Finnish imports of coffee only. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Payments for imports from Brazil may be made only to Brazilian banks. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka Accounts, Restricted Markka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresidents in convert- ible or bilateral currencies.4 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kept; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Capital Accounts; for payments to residents of Finland; and for withdrawals in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for transfers abroad or withdrawals in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilateral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited with the equiva- lent in Finnish markkas of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of Finland to resi- dents of convertible currency countries; with transfers from other Convertible Markka Accounts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for transfers to other Convertible Markka, Restricted Markka, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3). They may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in footnote 2, or the currency of the country of the account holder; with transfers f rom another Restricted Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account holder; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the * Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible Markka Account, or a Restricted Markka Account; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a nonresident; with interest on the account; with income f rom nonresident- held assets; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers from a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for the travel and living expenses in Finland of the account holder and nonresident members of his family or, if the holder is a firm, members of its staff traveling at the firm's expense, up to Fmk 1,000 for each person for each perio.d of ten days; for payments not exceeding Fmk 1,000 for support of a person in distress in Finland; for payments for expenses incurred by a bank in administer- ing the assets of the account holder; for investment in bonds quoted on the stock exchange and issued after August 31, 1939 which are not tied to any foreign currency and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder; for acquisitions of shares on the basis of subscription rights to shares belonging to the same account holder and held in the custody of a bank; for the purchase through the Helsinki stock exchange of shares in place of other shares, held in the custody of a bank, that have been sold not more than a month before; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for monthly transfers abroad up to Fmk 1,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last three years, provided that he is destitute in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. There are also special transfer accounts for nonresident funds await- ing repatriation. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area.5 Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys- 6From Brazil, however, only direct import is permitted; payment for goods of Brazilian origin must be made direct to a Brazilian bank. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND tern, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups. All remaining goods require an individual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list or discretionary licensing list. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and shipped from the U.S.S.R., and for many commod- ities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberalized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the related trade agreement. All other imports require individual licenses. For goods that do not require a license, the importer must file an import control declaration with the customs for statistical purposes. Exchange i§ granted without delay for all permitted imports on pre- sentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Importers of specific consumer durable goods must make payment abroad or deposit cash for their imports before customs clearance can be obtained; otherwise, payment for imports must be made within six months after the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to maximum allowance or other conditions; for other transactions, with few exceptions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 400 for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and Fmk 800 for each visit to other countries. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 100 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in foreign notes and coins; travelers to neighboring countries making frequent trips to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land boundary may take out Fmk 100 a person a month in Finnish notes and coins. The automatic exchange allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Fmk 120 a day. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. All exporters, however, are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident trav- elers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland, which is granted in certain circumstances. Inheritances are in most cases transferable without limitation and, sub- ject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically, up to Fmk 50,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for three years are permitted to repatriate their blocked assets within five years (1) by annual installments of Fmk 5,000 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 25,000 (to the annual installments may be added interest accrued on the account calculated in conformity with the ordinary rate of bank interest paid on deposits), and (2) by five equal annual installments for amounts exceeding Fmk 25,000. During the entire period of transfer, the funds must be held on special transfer accounts. Moreover, persons who have resided abroad since Septem- ber 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that since that date have held an account with a Finnish monetary institution are permitted to repa- triate their balances freely. Nonresident bondholders may repatriate amounts fa l l ing due on account of redemption of bonds in markkas issued before Septem- ber 1,1939. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible currencies or by debiting a Con- vertible Markka Account, bonds or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident pur- chaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible currency. No permission is needed for the acquisition of bonds issued af ter August 31, 1939 with funds classified as Capital Accounts, but proceeds of the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkas from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities by nonresidents and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Fin- land, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants per- mission liberally, except where it would be contrary to the national interest. At the time the Bank approves an incoming transaction, it may state the conditions for repatriation of the invested capital. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of the enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liber- ally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is concern for the protection of natural resources, mainly forests. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their for- eign assets and the yields on their property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surren- dered. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 5,000 a person. Changes during 1966 January 1. The import regulations for 1966 came into effect. Further imports f rom the multilateral area were liberalized. The total value of 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND global quotas was set at Fmk 483 million, slightly below the total for 1965 owing to the liberalization of 15 commodity groups previously included in the global quota list; the new quotas represented increases of between 20 per cent and 25 per cent over the corresponding ones for 1965. Many goods no longer required a license when imported f rom bilateral countries, provided that the country of purchase and the coun- try of origin were identical; this liberalization was more extensive for the U.S.S.R. than for the other bilateral countries. The goods to which this liberalization regime did not apply were set out in a negative list for the U.S.S.R. and in a positive list for the other bilateral countries. January 1. The international postal money order service, which had been interrupted since 1939, was restored. The service would be avail- able for payments with Austria, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. January 17. The de facto liberalization of imports of passenger cars from multilateral countries was temporarily suspended; licenses would be limited to a total value of Fmk 120 million for the first half of 1966, compared with a global quota of Fmk 115 million as required by the EFTA arrangements for the calendar year 1966. Imports of passenger cars under bilateral payments agreements were not affected. Previously, under an administrative practice adopted in 1962, imports of passenger cars in excess of the global quota had been freely licensed f rom the multilateral area. July 1. The de facto liberalization of imports of passenger cars from the multilateral area was restored. The import tax on passenger automobiles was fur ther increased. August 1. The payments agreement with Greece was terminated; all payments between Finland and Greece would henceforth take place in convertible currencies. August 1. For import licensing purposes, Greece was included in the multilateral area. October 1. For import licensing purposes, Turkey was included in the multilateral area. December 2. Import duties were abolished for about 30 products and reduced for 20 products. The commodities affected were mainly raw materials and semimanufactured goods. December 2. The requirement of cash payment before customs clear- ance, which was applicable to specified commodities, was applied to additional commodities. The requirement was extended to cover ship- ments arriving at a free port. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND December 16. An amendment to the bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was agreed; in 1967, half of any clearing balance would be paid quarterly in convertible currencies. NOTE: —The following changes took place early in 1967: January 1. The import regulations for 1967 entered into force. Com- modities under 30 tar iff headings were removed f rom the global quota list and no longer required licenses when imported f rom the multilateral area; some of these goods also were freed from licensing when imported from bilateral countries. January 15. Exchange allocations for travel services (other than transportation) included in the cost of a trip paid for in domestic currency before departure were limited to Fmk 400 a person a trip for travel in Scandinavian countries and Fmk 800 a person a trip for travel in other countries. Amounts in excess of Fmk 200 ( for Scandi- navian travel) or Fmk 400 ( for other travel) were to be deducted from the standard exchange allowance for tourist travel. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per French Franc or F 4.93706 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of F 4.90 buying, and F 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European curren- cies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely nego- tiated rates. Authorized banks in continental France (including Corsica) and in the Principality of Monaco, as well as banks estab- lished abroad, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal with their cor- respondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Residents may freely conclude forward exchange contracts for periods not exceeding one year in respect of receipts and payments related to any permitted current or capital transactions; forward exchange contracts for longer periods may be entered into for the purpose of making payments for trade trans- actions. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises (1) the territory of the French Republic, i.e., continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reun ion), the Overseas Terri- tories, except French Somaliland (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia); (2) the Condominium of the New Hebrides; and (3) Algeria, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Dahomey, Gabon, Guinea, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Togo, Tunisia, and Upper Volta. Payments from France to other parts of the French Franc Area are free of restriction. Administration of Control The Minister of Economy and Finance is granted extensive authority in trade and exchange control. Various departments of the Ministry are '•This survey presents the position on December 31, 1966. Certain changes that took place in January 1967 are described in an annex at the end of this survey. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE concerned with the issue and supervision of import and export docu- ments, statistical registration of import payments and export proceeds, the preparation of decisions concerning and control over French invest- ments abroad and foreign investments in France, and the preparation of regulations concerning foreign trade and exchange. The Bank of France is concerned with the issue of licenses for transactions of a financial nature, controls relating to assets held abroad, the repatria- tion of income, transactions in foreign securities, etc. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area may be made in the currency of any part of that Area. Settlements with countries in the area of convertibility, which comprises all countries outside the French Franc Area, may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through Nonresident Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Settlements with Laos and Viet-Nam are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for a nonresident foreigner or for a French national who either has been residing abroad for at least two years or, before this two- year period has elapsed, has been accorded the status of a nonresident. Authorized banks may freely grant credit for up to one year in the fo rm of debit balances on nonresident accounts; otherwise, nonresident accounts in francs may not show a debit balance unless specifically permitted. French f ranc balances maintained by nonresidents are per- mitted to bear interest. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs may be used for settlements with residents of the French Franc Area (including settlements for imports and exports). They may be credited freely with f rancs obtained f rom sales of currencies of countries in the area of convertibility in the exchange market in France or through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; with French francs obtained f rom the sale of foreign banknotes; and with French banknotes and coins received by authorized banks from their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. They may be debited freely for purchases in the exchange market in France of any foreign currency negotiated in that market; for purchases of the currency of any country in the area of convertibility through a French authorized bank in an exchange 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE market abroad; for transfers to the credit of another Foreign Account in Convertible Francs; for the purchase of foreign banknotes; and for French banknotes and coins dispatched by authorized banks to their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. Other transactions through Foreign Accounts may be made by individual or general authorization. Three other categories of nonresi- dent accounts (Tourist Accounts, Suspense Accounts, and Nonresident Internal Accounts) are of minor significance, in practice. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and brought from other parts of the French Franc Area are generally admitted free of quantitative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in countries out- side the French Franc Area and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent terri- tories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Fin- land, the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified countries;2 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R.) and Mainland China; and (4) certain other countries not included in any of the foregoing groups. Eastern Germany occupies an intermediate position between categories (3) and (4 ). Imports from all countries of certain agricul- tural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restric- tions. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restric- tions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported from the next group of countries plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the liberalization. 2 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different countries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Canada, the United States, Hong Kong, and Macao. Imports of 54 industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these 54 and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities global quotas that apply to all countries outside the French Franc Area are announced semiannually. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, certain wines, olive oil, and specified fruits and vegetables. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required. For some liberalized imports an administrative visa issued by the central customs administration or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require licenses, which are issued automatically. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the IMEX and EXIM procedures,3 which provide for the importation of raw materials and other goods needed to produce goods for export, or under the compensation transaction procedure, which applies mainly to agricultural items from countries in the Soviet bloc. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, and as a result of the liberalization of exchange control that took place in December 1966, imports under these schemes now are of very slight importance. 8 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed to produce goods for export. The lag between importation and exportation may not exceed six months. Under the EXIM procedure, exporters are assured of receiving import licenses for the subsequent importation of goods used in the production of their exports. The time lag between exportation and importation is six to nine months. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Imports exceeding F 10,000 in value, and all imports for which pay- ment is required before the goods reach France, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. For goods imported under the import declaration or attestation procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been domiciled with an authorized bank, arrange with the bank to purchase spot or forward exchange. As a gen- eral rule, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after documents have been presented to prove that the goods have been shipped. However, payment up to F 20,000 may be made at the time of domiciliation of the import, and special authorization may be given to importers to purchase exchange forward for a period of more than six months and to make total or partial prepayment at a date preceding that of importation by more than one year. Payments far Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are controlled, but applications for remittances are approved, provided that no unauthorized capital trans- fer is involved. If jus t ify ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve appli- cations for payments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for many other categories of current invisibles. Applications for other payments for invisibles are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Payments which may be authorized without limitation include those related to approved trade transactions; to maritime contracts of any k ind; to income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties; to banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; to specified insurance payments; to fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; to rents and similar payments due to nonresident owners and administrators of firms in France; to participation in foreign congresses, conferences, etc.; to alimony in accordance with court decisions; to fees for education and cost of maintenance of stu- dents abroad; to business travel abroad; and to net salaries of nonresidents employed in France within three months from the date of payment. Payments up to established limits which may be approved include those by residents traveling abroad for pleasure (up to F 7,000 for each t r ip ), by residents for family maintenance (up to F 1,000 a month for each benef ic iary), and by residents on account of rebates, refunds, 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE discounts, etc. Also, authorized banks may approve payments up to F 500 for any purpose; subject to certain conditions, they may approve transfers up to F 2,500 to residents finding themselves abroad without means of payment. In addition to the exchange allocation for tourist purposes (up to the equivalent of F 7,000 for each t r ip ), authorized banks may grant resident tourists going abroad exchange for renting rooms and villas abroad; these tourists may freely make travel arrangements through licensed travel agencies operating in France or purchase credit cards in France for their traveling expenses abroad, without limitation, and buy tickets in France against French francs for any transportation abroad. Also, they are permitted to take with them up to the equivalent of F 1,000 in foreign exchange (notes, coins, travelers checks, etc.) which they did not spend during previous travel abroad. Nonresident travelers leaving France may exchange into foreign currency French banknotes and coins up to F 1,000 without any forma l- ity, and larger amounts upon presentation of proof that such banknotes and coins were obtained from the sale of foreign currency or f rom debiting a nonresident account within the two months preceding their departure from France. Nonresident travelers crossing the border may take out of France coins (except gold coins) and banknotes issued by a bank of issue in the French Franc Area, up to a limit of F 1,000 for banknotes issued by the Bank of France and French coins, or up to 75,000 CFA or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in banknotes and coins in a currency other than the French f ranc. Within the limit of the F 7,000 that they are allowed to export to cover the cost of their stay abroad, resident travelers may take out coins (other than gold coins) and banknotes issued by a bank of issue in the French Franc Area, provided that the amount of banknotes or coins in a currency other than the French f ranc does not exceed 75,000 CFA or CFP francs or the equivalent of F 750. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Regardless of their value, exports under the IMEX or EXIM pro- cedures, or through compensation transactions with certain countries,4 * Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, ILS.S.R., United Arab Republic, Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American countries. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Other exports are free of trade or exchange controls; when such exports exceed F 5,000 in value, certain f inanc ial informa- tion must be supplied together with the customs declaration in order to enable the verification of the collection of the export proceeds. Goods that are purchased in France by nonresidents against checks or travelers checks expressed in any currency, or against checks issued by foreign correspondents of French banks to the debit of nonresident accounts, are considered as exports and are exempt from turnover taxes. Exporters may grant credit for one year f rom the date of arrival of the goods at destination or, subject to administrative authorization, for a longer period, but thereafter the proceeds must be collected within 30 days. Exporters are permitted to sell fo rwa rd their anticipated export proceeds. If payment is received in foreign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange market within three months, unless they were used for payments for authorized transactions. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a certain percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import licenses for any commodity related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their exports made in the previous year. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect within one month from the date that payment is due proceeds accruing f rom services rendered by them abroad and, in general, all proceeds accruing from any other source abroad. If the settlement is in foreign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange market within three months, unless they were used for payments for authorized transactions. Residents are, however, exempt f rom this requirement in respect of proceeds of up to F 1,000 accruing from the collection of coupons of foreign securities held abroad and f rom immovable property located abroad. When the limit of F 1,000 is reached, such proceeds must be repatriated prior to March 31 of the year following the year in which the limit was exceeded. Travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by some banks of issue in the French Franc Area is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Residents returning from abroad may retain foreign exchange (notes, coins, travelers checks, etc.) up to the equivalent of F 1,000 for use during their next trip abroad. Capital All capital transactions involving nonresident interests must be car- ried out through the intermediary of authorized banks. Most outward transfers by residents for the purpose of making investments abroad require approval; these include direct investments in foreign enterprises as well as the establishment of branches by French firms. Requests for the authorization of direct investments abroad are approved liberally. Issues of securities in France by nonresi- dents require the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Authorized banks may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for periods not exceeding six months. Residents are permitted to deal in securities abroad, within the limitations described below. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents of French nationality may use such assets in accordance with a general or individual license. Residents of foreign nationality may dispose freely of their assets abroad. Residents of French nationality must repatriate within three months the proceeds from the sale of securities abroad, unless these proceeds were used to purchase other securities. This obligation also applies to residents of foreign national- ity, to the extent that the securities sold have previously been pur- chased with funds they held in France. Transfers abroad are permitted freely in respect of legacies and dowries due to nonresidents and in respect of assets of persons of foreign nationality who, after staying in France as residents, leave to establish residence abroad. Emigrants are allocated F 5,000 in addition to the tourist allowance; they may apply to the Bank of France for permission to transfer larger amounts. Within the limits described below, nonresidents may freely make investments in France and deal in securities in France. They are per- mitted to repatriate the proceeds accruing from the liquidation of approved investments and from the sale of their securities in France. The following investments may be made freely in France by nonresi- dents: (1) subscriptions to an increase in the capital of a French com- pany, provided that its shares are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France; (2) subscriptions, at the time of issuance, to short-term5 5 Although the exchange control regulations permit nonresidents to subscribe to short-term securities, the regulations of the National Credit Council do not. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE or long-term securities and bonds issued by a French public service organization or by a private enterprise having its head office in France, provided that the securities issued by the private enterprise are offi- cially quoted on a stock exchange in France; (3) acquisition on a spot basis through the intermediary of a notary public of immovable prop- erty or rights to such property located in France, for which up to 50 per cent of the sales price may be financed with credit; (4) loans to residents of up to F 1 million (or its equivalent in foreign currency), provided that the rate of interest does not exceed 4 per cent and that the maturity is less than two years;6 and (5) purchases of securities in France as described below. Other investments, particularly direct investments, by nonresidents in France require individual licenses. Repatriation of the proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved invest- ments is permitted. Dealings in securities are subject to special regulations; in principle, all dealings must take place on stock exchanges. Nonresidents are per- mitted to deal on a stock exchange in France in any security officially quoted on that stock exchange, and residents are permitted to deal in France or abroad in any security officially quoted on a stock exchange. Special conditions are, however, attached to transactions in certain foreign securities listed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Furthermore, purchases of French securities by nonresidents require prior license when they are to be made in any manner other than by purchase on a French stock exchange. Securities may be imported and exported freely through authorized banks as follows: imported on behalf of residents or nonresidents; exported on behalf of nonresidents, or exported on behalf of residents for the purpose of selling the securities in accordance with the regula- tions mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Dealings in securities on a spot or forward basis may be made in France by all nonresidents. Residents may carry out spot or fo rwa rd transactions in securities on foreign stock exchanges. Nonresidents must make payments for securities purchased in France in accordance with the regulations applicable to foreign countries; they are permitted to transfer abroad the proceeds accruing f rom the sale of securities in France. Exchange proceeds f rom the sale of securities abroad by residents may be disposed of in one of the following ways: (1) repatriated and surrendered, (2) used to acquire securities abroad, or (3) if exchange 6 At no time may the total outstanding amount of the loans obtained by a resident under these circumstances exceed F 1 million or its equivalent in foreign currency. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE control regulations in the country where the sale took place do not permit the transfer of proceeds f rom the sale of securities, ceded to a resident for the subsequent purchase of securities in that country. The purchase of securities by a resident on a stock exchange abroad can be financed by (1) the purchase of foreign exchange on the exchange market in France, (2) the use within three months of the proceeds from the sale abroad of securities by the seller, (3) the use of funds in foreign currency held by the buyer and not subject to sur- render requirements, and (4) the use of funds in foreign currency acquired f rom any person in the French Franc Area if such funds may not be repatriated because of exchange control regulations abroad. Changes during 1966 January 1. Export controls were revised. Exports to countries outside the French Franc Area no longer had to be domiciled at an authorized bank. January 8. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, in which exporters could retain certain percentages of their export pro- ceeds received in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area, were abolished. Henceforth, holders of an exporter's card could obtain annually import licenses for any commodity related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their proceeds in non-French Franc Area currencies received in the previous year. January 27. The opening at Le Havre of an international futures market for robusta coffee was announced. January 30. Many imports of manufac tured goods originating in and shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. were liberalized. February 16. Importers of chrome and asbestos f rom Rhodesia were requested to seek alternative suppliers. March 31. Exports of hides, skins, and unworked leather to countries other than EEC members and Greece were prohibited; exempt were sales in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas. April 4- A communique of the Minister of Economy and Finance reminded the public that purchases of real estate situated outside the French Franc Area required prior approval by the Bank of France. Those who had not yet done so were requested to declare their pur- chases to the Bank in order to comply with the regulations. April 5. The two principal import liberalization lists were trans- formed f rom positive into negative lists, indicating the products still subject to quantitative restriction rather than those that were liberal- 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ized. One negative list applied to imports originating in and shipped f rom the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories, and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia; a few items on this list were liberalized for the former OEEC countries but not for Canada and the United States, and attached to it were separate lists of additional items that were restricted when originating in Hong Kong and Macao, respec- tively. The other list applied to goods originating in and shipped from 49 specified countries (see footnote 2 ). May 4- An interdepartmental committee on Foreign Investments in France was created. One of its duties was to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on investment proposals of exceptional impor- tance that were submitted to him for approval. May 6. The conditions were announced on which certain new credit facilities for exports of capital equipment would be granted. May 11. Duty-free quotas were announced for a number of products originating in Tunisia; these did not include wine. May 13. Authorized banks could freely open accounts in non-French Franc Area currencies for any person, irrespective of nationality and country of residence. The existing regulations concerning such accounts were liberalized. The new regulations governing the operation of such accounts varied according to whether the holder was a nonresident, a resident of foreign nationality, or a resident with the nationality of a country in the French Franc Area. June 1. Wine f rom Algeria became subject to a minimum import price. June 21. Nonresident physical persons could freely open savings accounts related to the purchase of houses and apartments in France (comptes d'epargne-logement). June 26. The amount of French f ranc banknotes that resident travel- ers could freely take with them was increased from F 1,000 to F 7,000. The total amount in French francs and non-French Franc Area cur- rency that they could take out remained unchanged at F 7,000 a person a trip. June 26. A number of agricultural commodities and foodstuffs on the negative list for former OEEC countries, etc., were liberalized when imported from the countries to which the list applied. This liberalization was in fact applied to all GATT countries. June 26. A number of agricultural items were liberalized when originating in and shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the U.S.S.R. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE July. A new protocol to the trade agreement with Japan was signed. It provided that France would liberalize imports of 10 of the 64 items still subject to quantitative restriction when of Japanese origin; most of the remaining quotas for Japanese goods would be increased. July. An agreement between the Government and the Chambre Syndi- cale de la Siderurgie Frangaise gave the steel industry the right to buy coal and ores in the cheapest market. July 1. An international futures market for refined sugar was opened in Paris. July 15. The arrival at destination of goods exported or re-exported without an export license to other parts of the French Franc Area no longer required documentary proof. July 27. The duty-free importation of 1 million hectoliters of Tunisian wine was permitted. September 15. Export contracts could provide that claims would fa ll due one year (previously six months) after arrival of the goods at their destination. The period of one month allowed for the collection of claims due remained unchanged, as did the period of three months allowed between collection of non-French Franc Area currencies and their sale on the Paris exchange market. Exports under compensation transac- tions, exports under the IMEX and EXIM procedures, temporary exports, and exports on consignment were freed from the requirement of domiciling the export title (export license) with an authorized bank. September 15. Authorized banks were permitted to grant guarantees to nonresidents in respect of exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. September 15. Authorized banks were permitted to put up guarantees related to residents' purchases and sales at auctions in countries out- side the French Franc Area. September 15. Additional types of payment that authorized banks could approve included the fo l low ing: (1) payments for collective sub- scriptions to foreign periodicals; (2) refunds by exporters to foreign purchasers of amounts overpaid; (3) settlements by French enterprises in respect of the expenses of their offices abroad; (4) payments for imports valued at up to F 10,000 for which the importer could not produce the customs copy of the invoice; (5) payments for imported electricity, water, and gas; and (6) reimbursement of expenses resulting from the implementation of after-sales guarantees on goods sold abroad. October 22. The official quotation of the Portuguese escudo was suspended. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE October 25. The Minister of Economy and Finance was given powers to issue licenses for imports for which quotas were opened in accord- ance with the regular procedures to firms or groups of firms undertaking to follow marketing and pricing policies that conformed to the policy set by the Government. November 5. The opening in Paris of an international futures market for soy cakes was announced. November 8. A number of additional imports were liberalized, and the four principal liberalization lists were revised accordingly. The measures did not affect all areas equally. The import of meat was liberalized from virtually all sources. The number of items that were subject to quota when originating in Japan was reduced from 64 to 54. November 9. The National Credit Council permitted interest to be paid on nonresident accounts in France that were denominated in French francs. November 9. Loans extended in French francs by French banks to foreign firms were exempt f rom the tax on services. November 9. The Bank of France extended special refinancing facil- ities to French banks for the credits in francs that they granted to French firms in connection with the firms7 investments or establishment in countries outside the French Franc Area. November 18. The obligation of depositing non-French Franc Area currencies and non-French Franc Area securities held in France was abolished. Those currencies and securities already deposited could be returned immediately by the depository to the holder, whether resident or nonresident. November 18. The maximum period for which authorized banks could freely grant credits to nonresidents of the French Franc Area through f ranc overdrafts on nonresident accounts was extended from six months to one year. November 18. The maximum period for forward exchange transac- tions between authorized banks and their correspondents outside the French Franc Area was extended from six months to one year, irrespec- tive of the currency concerned. December 18. A law providing for the introduction of antidumping duties was promulgated. December 28. A law governing Financial Relations with Foreign Countries was promulgated. It established freedom of financial relations between France and all foreign countries. Existing legislation contrary to this principle would be revoked from the date on which the law took effect (January 31, 1967, see below). Existing regulations in respect 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE of imports and exports of goods, insurance, reinsurance, and capitaliza- tion would not be affected. The Government reserved the right, in order to ensure the defense of the national interest, to take the following action: (1) To require declaration, prior approval, or supervision of (a) exchange transactions, capital movements, and payments of any nature between France and foreign countries; (b) formation, changes in composition, and liquidation of French assets in foreign countries; (c) formation and liquidation of foreign investments in France; and (d) the import and export of gold and all other physical movements of assets between France and foreign countries. (2) To prescribe the repatriation of claims on foreign countries resulting from commodity exports, of remuneration for services, and, generally, of any income or proceeds in foreign countries. (3) To authorize intermediaries to effect the operations under (1) (a) and (1) (d ). ANNEX Abolition of Exchange Control January 31, 1967. Law No. 66-1008 dated December 28, 1966 and an enforcement decree dated January 27, 1967 introduced far-reaching changes in the system governing France's financial relations with countries abroad, on and from January 31, 1967. The main feature of the regime introduced by these two enactments is the abolition of the exchange control brought into existence on September 10, 1939, i.e., a return to complete freedom of transfers between France and foreign countries. Compared with the previous situation, this means that per- sons residing in France may now freely undertake all movements of funds between France and foreign countries for any purpose whatever, and by any means whatever (settlements through banks, through the postal system, through compensations on current account, etc.). Simi- larly, such persons may henceforth freely constitute and maintain abroad holdings of any sort whatever, and they are no longer obliged to repatriate the receipts arising from their claims on foreign countries. Moreover, as a consequence, imports and exports of monetary paper (banknotes, checks) have again become completely f ree, as have imports and exports of all types of securities and gold, with the proviso that those of gold are subject to a prior declaration to the Bank of France. Without prejudice to the convertibility of the franc, control is exercised by the Minister of Economy and Finance over a limited number of capital movements. This control is therefore exercised not over the transfers which, in any event, are completely free but over the transactions themselves. Three categories of operation are still 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE subject to such control: foreign issues on the French capital market, borrowing abroad by French companies, and direct investment, i.e., investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere partici- pation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. Operations other than those listed above may be carried out freely. Foreign investments in France, and French investments abroad, must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance when they are being made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Insofar as the liquidation of direct invest- ments is concerned, whether these are French investments abroad or foreign investments in France, the liquidation must be reported, and the report must be submitted within 20 days following each liquidation. Foreign issues on the French capital market require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by French companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France, or (3) securities whose issue has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (a) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (b) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between France and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (c) loans contracted by banks; (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower. Compared with the previous regulations, the concept of "foreign country" has been extended. The term now includes all countries other than France, i.e., other than continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments, and the Overseas Territories (except French Somali- land) . The Principality of Monaco is assimilated with France. Never- theless, the control measures affecting direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with the following states, whose bank 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an operations account: Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. So far as foreign trade is concerned, export and import procedures have been adjusted to take account of the abolition of exchange con- trol. In particular, the domiciliation requirement in connection with imports has been abolished, as have the approval procedure for transfers in respect of liberalized commodities prior to their shipment, the formality of the foreign exchange commitment for exports, and the special control regimes for imports and exports where no payment is involved. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 — US$1.1 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French francs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, which is under the authority of the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Foreign Trade Office of the Ministry of National Economy allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import program. It also issues import and export licenses, which must be approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Gabon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security, and imports of certain others are restricted for protective reasons. Imports of all other goods f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, provided that they origi- 1 The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and Congo (Brazzaville). 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON nate in that Area. Many imports f rom EEC countries other than France are also free of quantitative restrictions. All other imports f rom coun- tries outside the French Franc Area except petroleum are subject to import licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. For petroleum imports a jo int quota is established for the four countries of the Equa- torial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon). Licenses for certain imports outside the import program are granted to large firms. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country out- side the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R. and Mainland China, for each of which separate quotas are established. Imports of certain goods f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to ceilings within the import p rog ram; there are separate ceilings for EEC countries other than France and for all coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. Total imports f rom certain Far Eastern countries (taken as a group) are limited to 40 per cent of the total quotas established for all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year an announcement of the exchange alloted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for six mon ths; the license may be renewed three times for six months at a time for imports of cap i tal goods, and twice, for three months at a time, for imports of supplies, provided that the importer presents valid reasons for requesting the renewal. Imports of liberalized goods f rom EEC countries other than France require an import certificate. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses are granted for imports of raw materials and equipment to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Foreigners who are not nationals of a French Franc Area country and who have been hired by contract and hold an employment card may transfer to their country of origin their net basic pay. There is a basic tourist allocation up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip to countries outside the French Franc Area. Travelers to those countries on business may obtain an amount in excess of the above limit for bona fide living expenses, the amount depending on the destination and the duration of the trip. Transfers of earnings from capital invested in Gabon by foreign companies or foreign physical persons require prior approval by the Exchange O f f ice; for investments registered under the Investment Code, such transfers are always permitted upon production of documentary evidence. Gabonese nationals traveling abroad must lodge a deposit (repatria- tion guarantee) with the Treasury; exempt are persons traveling on official business, government-sponsored students, and persons taking up salaried professional employment abroad. Persons having the status of residents and traveling to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes or French banknotes. When traveling to other countries, they may take out banknotes up to a maximum of F 1,000 in French francs or CFAF 75,000 or CFPF 75,000 in legal tender CFA or CFP notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country, minus the amounts of French Franc Area banknotes that are taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. For exports to all other countries licenses, which are issued freely, are required; exceptions are cocoa, timber, and manganese, for which only an exchange commitment (engagement de change) must be approved by the Exchange Office. Gold and uranium may be exported only to France. The exporter undertakes to repatriate the export proceeds within a period of 180 days f rom the date of arrival of the goods at their destination. When settlement is made in a currency other than a French Franc Area currency, the exporter must surrender it on the Paris exchange market within three months following settlement. Exporters may retain, however, a part of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to make 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON payments abroad for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. The portion that may be retained is 8-15 per cent, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received from countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between Gabon and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Gabon and other countries are subject to authorization. Under the Investment Code promulgated on December 4, 1961, any enterprise established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specific income. The Code also provides, for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Gabon; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enter- prises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemp- tions from direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of other existing legislation. Requests for approval of preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, who, af ter examining the docu- ments, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON granted by a decision of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Foreigners who are not nationals of a country of the French Franc Area are permitted to repatriate their capital, provided that they have settled their taxes and provided that the foreign investment regime is applicable to them. Foreigners leaving Gabon permanently may take out up to CFAF 250,000 in foreign exchange, provided that they sign a statement to the effect that they are not returning to the French Franc Area; three months af ter their return to their country of origin they may obtain the transfer of their total bank balances in Gabon. Changes during 1966 January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon) entered into effect. January 1. The import allocation for certain Far Eastern countries (taken as a group) was increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent of total quotas established for all countries outside the French Franc Area. January 15. In accordance with the UDEAC customs ta r i f f, certain import taxes were abolished. January 15. The UDEAC customs tariff went into effect. February 25. Circular No. 634 of the Ministry of National Economy listed all commodities whose importation was unrestricted when origi- nating in and shipped f rom EEC countries other than France. July 1. The exemption of cocoa exports from export duty and certain other taxes was extended until September 30,1967. July 26. Gabonese nationals traveling abroad were required to lodge a deposit (repatriation guarantee, garantie de repatriement) with the Treasury. Exempt were persons traveling on official business, government-sponsored students, and persons taking up salaried pro- fessional employment abroad. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Exchange System The par value is 0.222168 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark or DM 4.00 = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bundesbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. For banks7 transactions with their cus- tomers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market dates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Ger- many x and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of cur- rency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or sur- render their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Germany by any non- resident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any pay- ment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, except savings accounts of individual persons, may carry interest only if a special license has been granted. Such licenses are given to all credit institutions for the payment of interest on customers7 balances held as cover for letters of credit; otherwise, licenses are given in exceptional cases only. Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Erndhrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments Imports of virtually all commodities either originating in or pur- chased in Rhodesia are suspended. With this exception, quantitative restrictions are not applied to imports of most commodities purchased f rom and originating in countries other than Soviet countries and Main- land China (i.e., the countries included in country list C of the Foreign Trade Regu la t ion ); out of a total of some 8,000 items, 7,400 may be imported freely f rom those other countries (i.e., those in country lists A and B of the Foreign Trade Law ). In addition, some 240 items are liberalized when originating in European OECD countries and their associated or dependent territories. Certain solid fuels are liberalized only when purchased and imported from other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty; imports of coal f rom other sources are limited to a global quota. Imports f rom all sources of about 190 tariff items (sugar, cereals, cattle, certain meat and meat products, milk, and edible fa ts) are controlled by virtue of the German Marketing Laws; since these items are also covered by EEC regulations, licenses are issued automatically and without limit for all of them. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, wine, olive oil, and specified fru i ts and vegetables. De facto liberalization is extended to many industrial and certain agricultural commodities when originating in and purchased in Bul- garia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely. Imports free of quantitative restriction are not subject to licensing, and no prior control is exercised over such imports; however, an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as documentation for customs control and for statistical purposes, is required. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY the post), an individual import license is required. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or account may be taken of conditions of price, delivery, quality, etc., or of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. For manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. No fees are charged for licenses to import manufactured goods. Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import trans- action is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out f ree ly; but when they involve certain countries, they are subject to certain condi- tions. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of pay- ment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways t ra f f ic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with non- residents ; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion- picture films.2 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports to Rhodesia are suspended. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, only an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports—mostly strategic goods—are subject to individual licensing. 2 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German- synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in Eastern bloc countries, and the acceptance of film services from Eastern bloc countries. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims exceed- ing DM 10,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of Eastern bloc countries of constructional drawings, mate- rials, and instructions for manufacture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license. However, domestic money market paper (Treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities—if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securities later at a definitely fixed price —may not be sold to nonresidents with- out an individual license. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Changes during 1966 January 1. The amount beyond which export claims overdue for more than three months must be reported was raised from DM 3,000 to DM 10,000. January 5. The granting of official export credit insurance in respect of new transactions with Rhodesia was suspended. March 24. The validity of import licenses for crude oil and heating oil was reduced to three months in order to facilitate estimates of 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY future imports. The denial of import licenses for these commodities no longer required cabinet approval. March 29. Imports of pig iron and chromite of Rhodesian origin were prohibited. March 31. Export credit for up to 180 days could be extended without prior approval on sales to countries included in country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation. April 6. New trade arrangements agreed with Japan provided for further relaxation of restrictions on imports of Japanese origin. May 6. De facto liberalization was extended to many industrial and certain agricultural commodities when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Hungary, and Rumania. Import and export quotas for these countries for the remaining restricted items were increased consider- ably. Similar treatment would be accorded to other Eastern European countries upon the signature or renegotiation of the respective bilateral trade agreements. Corresponding action with respect to Poland was taken on May 10. July 16. All imports of goods either originating in or purchased in Rhodesia required an individual import license; Rhodesia was deleted from country list B of the Foreign Trade Law. It was subsequently announced that the measure was aimed at preventing any increase in imports of unprohibited items from Rhodesia; for asbestos, the degree of quantitative restriction would depend on the safeguarding of alterna- tive supplies on comparable terms. August H. The export restrictions maintained for security reasons were revised in accordance with agreed changes in the international embargo lists; a further revision on December 9 lifted the restriction on exports of steel pipe. October 28. Imports of specified cotton textiles of Hong Kong origin that previously were liberalized required an individual license. October 28. Imports of lead and zinc originating in Soviet countries of Eastern Europe required an individual license; previously, such imports were liberalized, provided that the goods had been purchased on a commodity exchange from a seller resident in a country included in country list A or list B of the Foreign Trade Law. December 1. Imports of motion-picture films from France and Italy were liberalized; imports from all other countries in country lists A and B had already been liberalized. December 24. The issuance of import licenses for the following com- modities was suspended when they originated in or were purchased in 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Rhodesia: asbestos, iron ore, chromite, pig iron, sugar, tobacco and tobacco products, copper, meat and meat products, hides, skins, and leather. The issuance of export licenses for specified commodities (those in Part I of the Export List) was to remain suspended when the goods were sold to or destined for Rhodesia. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grains of fine gold per Ghanaian New Cedi or N01 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, which is N0 1 = £0 10s. Od. The new cedi circulates concur- rently with the old cedi, which is being withdrawn from circulation at a rate of N0 1 = 0 1.20. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the pound sterling and certain other currencies; it deals at rates within % of 1 per cent on either side of parity, the statutory limits being % of 1 per cent on either side of parity. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, is responsible for drawing up an annual foreign exchange budget. The Ministry of Trade prepares an import and export plan, which is subject to approval by the Cabinet. The over-all import plan must correspond to the import ceiling set by the Foreign Exchange Committee. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, to prohibit or regulate the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Applications for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorse- ment. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade. An exception is made for applications by the private sector for the import of consumer goods as well as for applica- tions by the National Trading Corporation and similar state trading agencies; such applications are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana admin- isters the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on February 17, 1967. 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in new cedis through Sterling Area accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in new cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any fore ign currency. Receipts from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in new cedis f rom a Foreign Account, in sterling f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is freely exchangeable for sterling or new cedis. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral trade and payments agree- ments are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area coun- tries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. 2 Ghana maintains such agreements with the following countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghana pounds unless otherwise no ted ): Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Eastern Germany, Guinea (US. dollars), Hungary, Israel (sterling), Mali, Poland, Rumania, UJ3.S.R., United Arab Republic (sterling), Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreement with Dahomey is at present inoperative. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds f rom sales of non- Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for authorized payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments A large part of the import trade is carried out through the state- owned Ghanaian National Trading Corporation or similar state trading agencies. Other goods are imported by private importers who must be registered. Certain imports are prohibited. There are six open general licenses which permit the f ree import f rom any country of specified commodities (including certain chemicals and fer t i l izers). All other imports require individual licenses, which are issued within the limits of the import plan. Individual licenses are of two kinds: specific and special unnumbered licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and therefore no transfer of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses"; these are not issued for imports in commercial quantities. A license fee of 1 per cent is payable on the c.i.f. value of all imports under specific license. Licenses for imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries specify the bilateral partner country from which the commodity has to be imported; licenses to import from countries outside the bilateral account group are valid for any of these countries. Licenses are nor- mally issued on a c.i.f. basis but are endorsed to the effect that insur- ance must be covered in Ghana. Imports f rom Rhodesia, South A f r ica, South West A f r ica, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. Imports by the private sector under individual licenses have to be financed on the basis of sight or acceptance documentary credits established by the importer with a commercial bank in Ghana. The opening of all import letters of credit requires the approval of the Bank of Ghana. Importers are required to deposit with the Bank of Ghana a minimum of 15 per cent of the value of letters of credit cover- ing imports of most consumer goods, including consumer durable goods. In practice, however, commercial banks require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Importers are required to deposit with the Bank of Ghana 15 per cent of the value of their orders for imports of consumer goods to be financed on a collection basis, within 14 days f rom the date of confirmation of the orders. Exchange control approval must be obtained by banks for a credit ceiling for the individual importer before accept- ance documentary credits are established. Documents against accept- ance terms for imports valued at more than N$! 300 require exchange control approval before orders are placed. Many imports are subject to a levy of 11.5 per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, import duty, and other import charges. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. The fo l low ing categories of payments are normally authorized in connection with the importation of goods: (1) the buying commission— this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted f rom the value of the import license; (2) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. Insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insur- ance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 50 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a maximum of N0 5,000 a yea r; this quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly require- ments and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscrip- tions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non- Ghanaian self-employed persons are considered on their individual merits by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., profits a f ter payment of the prevailing 45 per cent tax on companies and of a 20 per cent withholding tax; at present, however, no profit transfers are being authorized. The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanaians is N$ 41.66 for each person 18 years of age or over and N$ 20.83 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana but domiciled elsewhere in the Sterling Area are allowed up to N0 500 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota. Exchange for business travel is granted up to N^J 20.83 a day, for a maximum of seven days. All residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination. Resi- dents of any nationality (except children under 2 years of age, diplo- mats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them Ghanaian currency notes and foreign currency notes (including CFA f ranc notes) together equivalent to N$ 100, provided that not more than N0 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to N0 20, but may be spent only on Ghanaian a i rc ra ft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign cur- rency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds There are three open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade samples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to NJ2 20 in value, and luggage. All other exports require specific licenses f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Most items are exported through the Ghana Agricultural Produce Marketing Board. Exports to Rhodesia, South A f r ica, South West A f r ica, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. Travelers may bring in Ghanaian currency notes in any amount, but new cedi notes in excess of N$ 20 must be declared. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval if repatriation is to be guaranteed. The Capital Investments Act, which was promul- gated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the Act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and utilization of productive capacity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. Investments granted "approved status" under this Act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fa ir compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A Capital Investments Board, whose principal function is to decide which foreign investments qualify for benefits under the Act, has been established. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and return to their home country are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are very large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in registered government stocks, Treasury loans, or Treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Applications for the transfer abroad of funds by emigrants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the exchange control authorities. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In respect of port- folio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Changes during 1966 January 1. The import licensing procedures announced on October 27, 1965 came into operation. The special list of commodities that could be imported only from bilateral payments agreement countries was abol- ished. Four open general licenses for imports f rom all sources were established, replacing the existing ones. An export incentive scheme for manufactured goods was introduced, which provided for the issue of additional import licenses to manufacturers exporting goods made in Ghana, including goods incorporating imported raw materials or com- ponents (the scheme was subsequently abolished). A list was issued of goods for which, save in exceptional circumstances, no import licenses would be issued; these included various kinds of textiles and footwear. January 7. Imports from and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. January 17. Exchange allocations for tourist and business travel were reduced. The basic travel allowance was cut back from 0 120 to 0 50 a year. Exchange for business travel would be granted up to 0 25 a day for a maximum of seven days. January 17. Imports valued at more than 0 360 and payable on documents against acceptance terms required prior exchange control approval. All applications for the opening of import letters of credit required the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. The deposit require- ments for such credit were extended to imports of industrial raw mate- rials and to capital goods, for which deposits of 5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, had to be made. March 4- Specific import licenses issued after January 4, 1966 and for which letters of credit had not yet been established were recalled for revalidation. March 18. Authorized banks could, without prior reference to the Bank of Ghana, establish import letters of credit for permitted imports under revalidated specific licenses, provided that the payment terms conformed to the endorsement on the import license. Importers could, without prior reference to the Bank of Ghana, make payments for imports under bills for collection, provided that the bills were received and paid through an authorized bank. The cash margin requirements on import letters of credit for Pharmaceuticals, spare parts, essential foodstuffs, raw materials, and capital goods were abolished. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA May 16. Importers were not permitted to take up new suppliers' credits other than normal trade credits of up to 360 days' maturity. June 1. The servicing of medium-term suppliers' credits was sus- pended, pending the outcome of negotiations with ma jor creditor coun- tries for a rescheduling of such payments. June 13. The Bank of Ghana announced that f rom June 1, 1966 import licenses would be limited to the amounts foreseen in the foreign exchange budget. August 19. The Bank of Ghana announced a schedule for the settle- ment of arrears on current payments, other than profits, that were due prior to June 1966. December 1. The Bank of Ghana announced further releases of exchange in respect of arrears and for new payments. Payments under the separate arrangements with large creditors were not accelerated, nor were profit remittances resumed. Under the announcement of August 19, the Bank had so far provided the commercial banks with foreign exchange cover only for import payments, for transfers under personal remittance quotas, and for students' expenditures; it would now do so for many other current transactions, including passenger fares, freight earnings, technical fees, and subscriptions. December 9. Agreement was reached with the governments that were guaranteeing the ma jor part of the outstanding, medium-term (1-12 years) suppliers' credits on the principles which should underlie the rescheduling of Ghana's payments on suppliers' credits. Details were to be agreed in bilateral agreements between Ghana and the creditor countries concerned. December 16. A new List of Restricted Commodities was published. With effect from January 1, 1967, no import licenses would be issued for these goods, except in special circumstances. The list included poultry, various foods tuffs, fish (fresh, chilled, or frozen, not caught by Ghanaian-owned or Ghanaian-chartered vessels), fruits, coffee, all alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, gasoline, gas oil, diesel oil, soap, certain building materials, certain textiles, and all footwear. December 17. The Ghana pound, which had circulated concurrently with the cedi, was demonetized. December 30. It was announced that, with effect from January 1, 1967, no special unnumbered licenses would be issued to import goods in commercial quantities. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA January 21. Authorized banks were required to deposit at the Bank of Ghana the fu ll cedi equivalent of amounts received from residents for the purpose of making subsequent transfers abroad. January 23. Two additional open general licenses permitted the unrestricted importation from all sources of certain Pharmaceuticals, fertilizers and other chemicals, tools, coke, and pig iron. January 23. Further imports were prohibited by inclusion in the List of Restricted Commodities. These included cocoa, lard, palm oil, coconut oil, travel goods, certain textiles, and phonograph records. February 17. The International Monetary Fund concurred in the replacement of the existing currency unit, the cedi, with a new unit called the new cedi. The new cedi was the equivalent of 1.2 old cedis. The move did not involve any appreciation or depreciation of Ghana's currency. The par value of new cedi 1 = US$1.40 replaced that of old cedi 1 = US$1.16667. The old cedi would cease to be legal tender on May 23,1967. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma or Dr 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Board. Exchange control is implemented and applied, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and author- ized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are made on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved or in the currency and manner provided for by trade and payments agreements. Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies, with authorized pay- ments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convert- ible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a bilateral account for settlement with Chile of trade in specified commodities. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal f rom drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conver- sion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the conversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresident investors enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a minimum period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 5 per cent and 6 per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferable at maturity in the cur- rency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 200 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that his account had been opened before December 31, 1963, that the money deposited was derived f rom general revenue sources, and that the money was deposited in a blocked account during the current or prior calendar year; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, f rom accounts opened af ter January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may also be transferred abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities from all sources and of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of cotton textiles f rom Hong Kong are suspended. All imports, other than those with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval. The granting of an import 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE license implies the allocation of appropriate fore ign exchange. Apart f rom imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports f rom countries participating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in f ree dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. a id; (3) for imports f rom countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account; and (4) for imports from Cyprus when payment is made in free Cyprus pounds or through one of the EMA countries. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commodities in List A (certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain food- stuffs, including rice) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare pa r t s ). Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion pictures, as well as barter transac- tions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concerning payments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-3, P-6, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Pay- ments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time draf ts (which is per- mitted only for goods in Lists P-3 and P-6, the time limit being three months for List P-3 and one year for List P-6, except for machinery and spare parts, for which the time limit is three yea r s ). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in any one of the nine lists. When time draf ts are accepted, a personal written undertak- ing amounting to 4 per cent (List P-6) or 8 per cent (List P-3) of the 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE amount of the d ra ft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1-3, further cash deposits of 26-40 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security In per cent of invoice value 20 18 14 40 36 28 50 45 35 100 90 70 Total 70 63 49 140 1263 98 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one ha lf of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a fur ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-3, P-6, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P-3, and P-6. 8 The required prepayment and security deposit are 80 per cent and 32 per cent, respectively, for ham and European-type cheese. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days ( for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of obtain- ing the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of two months from the date on which they were made. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated as public service institutions are exempt f rom the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of under- taking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in List P-6, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months af ter the date of import approval. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 45 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 90 days following the date of arrival for goods in List P-6, and within 60 days following the date of import approval for goods in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (accident and l i fe) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for fam i ly reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to US$200 for each trip and for any number of trips a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Exporters and manufac turers are allowed US$20 a day for a maximum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a maximum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or from other businessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes. Nonresident travelers holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange when leaving Greece if the amount of such exchange exceeds US$500 or its equivalent; no declara- tion is required from holders of foreign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are f ree of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufac tures and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of fruit, or w ine; such transactions are permitted only with Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes in denominations of Dr 50 and Dr 100 only. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality need not declare their holdings of foreign exchange at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow con- vertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legisla- tive Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treat- ment. Under Law No. 4171-61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, fur ther privileges are provided for foreign capital partici- pating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year f rom the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of fore ign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Speci- fied foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Changes during 1966 March 7. The Athens Chamber of Commerce was authorized to nego- tiate bilateral trade agreements with its counterparts in Albania and Mainland China. A preliminary agreement with the Albanian Chamber of Commerce was signed on March 24. March 17. Additional regulations were issued regarding loans with a foreign currency clause extended by commercial and investment banks. The loan agreement must state the foreign currency in which the loan would be extended, and it was not permitted subsequently to change the currency specified. April 1. Imports originating in or shipped from Rhodesia were pro- hibited. April 2. All commercial exports to Rhodesia were prohibited; exports of arms had been prohibited since November 1965. June 6. The facility for the release of amounts up to Dr 60,0000 from blocked accounts opened before December 31, 1963 was limited to amounts deposited in such accounts during the current or prior calendar year. June 8. The Government imposed a requirement that advance deposits (both prepayment and security deposits) made by importers for their orders of certain goods be retained by the banks for two months instead of being refunded to the importer upon settlement of the shipping documents. The goods covered by this new measure were those in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3. Final settlement for such goods could be made within 60 days of the date of import approval (pre- viously, within 45 days following the date of arr iva l). June 29. A fee of 10 per cent was imposed on the f.o.b. value of all coffee of Brazilian origin paid for with convertible exchange. Further- more, licenses for the import against payment in convertible currencies of Brazilian coffee, whether imported direct from Brazil or through intermediaries in third countries, would not be issued unless the f.o.b. price was 15-20 per cent below that quoted for delivery against pay- ment through the Brazilian clearing. July 8. A list was published of companies, public agencies, and organizations designated as public service institutions. These institu- tions were exempted from the advance deposit requirements for imports. July 19. Payments between Greece and Spain were made in con- vertible currencies. July 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Finland was termi- nated. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE August 4- Greek tourists traveling in group tours were not permitted the travel allowance of US$200 but a reasonable amount within this limit, on the basis of a declaration of costs met by the travel agency. September 1. Adjustments in interest rates included reductions in the maximum rates payable on drachma sight deposits and increases in the maximum rates payable on drachma time and savings deposits. September 1. Certain credit facilities in respect of imports from Eastern European countries with which payments agreements were in force were abolished; similar credit facilities were introduced again on January 20,1967. October 6. A tax of 30 per cent was imposed on imports of passenger automobiles. October 27. The conditions were announced on which approval could be granted for the sale on credit, to payments agreement countries only, of agricultural products from government stocks in exchange for capital equipment to be supplied to the private sector. October 80. Imports of cotton textiles f rom Hong Kong were sus- pended. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal or Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies 2 on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27,1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund maintained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Pay- ments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearing- house established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central American countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poultry, and wheat flour. Within eight days after confirmation, importers must register with the Exchange Depart- ment any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports originating from Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for 1 In view of certain changes that occurred in January 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on January 3, 1967. 2 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Central American Economic Integration are exempt f rom this require- ment.) Importers must effect their registered imports during the 90-day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submission of the registration fo rm and the shipping documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for specified imports f rom Central American countries. Payments for imports which have to be fu l ly or partially prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the nature of the transaction; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which pay- ment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the original shipping docu- ments usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from customs must be obtained from the Exchange Department or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The customs officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports from Central American countries, the importer must com- plete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Department, giving a descrip- tion of the merchandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertook to pay in the future. If these forms are completed at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported from countries with which Guate- mala has an unfavorable trade balance. On December 31, 1966, this 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA surcharge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.3 This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed un iform tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authori- zation by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purposes of check- ing capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require authorization by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for current invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to verify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from and repayments of registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely. For certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange allowance equivalent to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tourist travel abroad. Up to that limit, exchange may be purchased for tourist travel as follows: for each trip to Central America, Q 300; to Mexico, Panama, and the Caribbean area, Q 750; and to the rest of the world, Q 2,500. Minors not traveling alone are entitled to half these allowances. The exchange allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the world. Subject to the Q 2,500 annual limit, exchange is granted up to the equivalent of Q 50 for each day of planned tourist travel abroad; exchange in excess of this daily maximum is granted when an additional allotment is considered justified. To ensure that both limits are observed for tourist travel, the traveler, when purchasing travel exchange, must lodge with the Bank of Guatemala a guarantee deposit in quetzales equivalent to the foreign exchange purchased; the deposit is refunded upon return to Guatemala, provided that the traveler either submits proof of having stayed abroad for at least the number of days for which he purchased the exchange or returns foreign exchange corresponding to the number 3 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA of days of the shortfall. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 5 per cent; furthermore, such passages (with the exception of those for travel within Central America) are subject to a tax of Q 3 for a one-way ticket or Q 5 for a round-trip ticket. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for family mainte- nance is Q250 a month for each relative (Q 2 00 for those under 18 years of age ), up to a maximum of Q 700 a month for each beneficiary fam i ly. Foreign technical personnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their families reside abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign tech- nicians leaving the country permanently may, subject to individual approval, transfer their savings up to the fu ll amount of their earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is not prohibited; however, Guatemalan banknotes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, or Nicaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a full description of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his under- taking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days a f ter the issuance of the license. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Proceeds front Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to J2 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All investment by foreign, domestic, or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified over-all amount a year, it must meet certain minimum quality and financing standards, and the sales value of a housing unit must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments require exchange licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, commercial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Changes during 1966 April 14. Decree-Law No. 443 provided that imports to be used in the production of manufac tures for export could be brought in duty- free. Firms wishing to benefit were required to apply for registration as "export industries" and to ship their imports and exports by national means of transportation and through national ports. April 14. Decree-Law No. 444 provided that imports specifically exempted f rom import duty and imports f rom countries with which Guatemala had no diplomatic relations must be transported by enter- prises in which there was government participation. Excluded f rom this restriction were goods exempted f rom duty under national development laws, when these goods originated in countries with which Guatemala had a favo rab le balance of trade. With certain exceptions, imports of the commodities referred to above, exports of firms enjoying benefits under national development laws, exports of minerals, and exports of agricultural products subject to licensing or quotas must, when transported by sea, channeled through one of the two government- owned ports —Matias de Galvez or Champerico. May 4- Decree-Law No. 468 clarified and amended Decree-Law No. 444 of April 14. The requirement regarding the use of state-owned transport companies would be applied only to shipment to Guatemala 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA by sea or air and not to internal transport. The provision relating to imports f rom countries with which Guatemala had no diplomatic relations was suppressed. The requirement to ship certain imports and exports exclusively through two specific ports was extended to cover exports of all agricultural and livestock products except coffee. Move- ments of petroleum products were temporarily exempted f rom these requirements. July 14. The Government announced that it had taken action to settle certain prewar foreign obligations ("the sterling debt"). July 14- The Government authorized the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala to permit the transfer of capital for investing in, or financing of, commercial, agricultural, and industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. August 5. Certificates of origin were no longer required for imports. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 1. In accordance with Decree-Law No. 1627 of December 9, 1966, certain taxes were imposed. These included a withholding tax of 10 per cent on dividends, profits, and bonuses paid in 1967 by natural or jur id ical persons to persons resident ab road; a tax of 5 per cent on all international air passages sold in 1967; a tax of 5 per cent on the first sale in Guatemala in 1967 of an imported passenger automobile; and a tax of 15 per cent on the local list price of passenger automobiles of 1966 or 1967 models imported by private persons. January 3. A limit of Q 50 for each day of planned foreign travel was imposed on fore ign exchange sales for tourist travel abroad. A guaran- tee deposit was imposed in an amount equivalent to the value of the exchange purchased, to be made at the Bank of Guatemala at the time the exchange was purchased. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency (introduced on March 1, 1960) is the Guinean Franc, defined as a monetary unit con- taining 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 50 = 1 French f ranc and GF 246.853 == US$1. The official buying and selling rates are GF 247 and GF 253 per US$1, respectively. These rates apply to all transactions and include a bank commission. Clearing account trans- actions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 246.853 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea is the only authority in exchange control matters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require individual licenses from the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks (the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade) after applications have been screened by the National Economic Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Trans- ferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies; Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Guinean Francs; and Blocked Accounts. 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, North Korea, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Poland, Sierra Leone, U.S.S,R., United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There are also inoperative payments agreements with Liberia and Senegal and a clearing arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Balances in Blocked Accounts, which are maintained in Guinean francs, represent funds held by nonresidents when their businesses were nationalized. When the commercial banks were liquidated, these balances were transferred to the Credit National, the principal government-owned deposit bank. No regulations have yet been issued to permit debits to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is no list of prohibited imports, but certain imports are not being licensed. All imports, other than those for the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks, after applications have been screened and approved by the National Economic Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign con- cession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared jointly by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks and the Ministry of Domestic Trade on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possi- bilities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Economic Commission, which takes into consideration the amount of imports foreseen under the program, the sources of imports, and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made by a foreign concession holder (the Fria Company) and by foreign embassies— and goods for the Seven-Year Plan. All commercial imports other than those by the Fria Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in various types of commerce. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each application is considered individ- 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA ually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in A f r ica and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside A f r ica. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, Guinean nationals are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fa res for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an addi- tional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 30,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved fore ign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be transferred depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pine- apples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus f ru it exported. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are single; expatriate workers employed by the private sector may transfer abroad 25 per cent of their net monthly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks in cooperation with the Ministry of Domestic Trade establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Economic Commission and the Government. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of com- mitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treas- ury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores expor ted); (3) to prevent 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to pre- vent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or a l ive ), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds imme- diately af ter they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Company are made by a state institution, Guinexport. Foreign planters are granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ). All export proceeds must be surrendered; however, the Fria Company is allowed to retain 66% per cent of its export earnings to pay for imports and invisibles and for the transfer of capital. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry. Nonresidents may retain the foreign banknotes they brought in and may sell them locally to finance their expenses, whereas Guinean nationals are required to surrender all foreign banknotes they bring in. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital trans- fers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 50/AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against nationalization for foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the trans- fer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 150 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this code. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Changes during 1966 July 6. A bilateral payments agreement with Cameroon was initialed but did not enter into force. July 6. Bilateral relations with Senegal were suspended. July 8. Guinea agreed with the International Monetary Fund a provisional exchange rate of GF 247 per US$1. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA * 2 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.518391 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar or G$l.71429 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 = £1 and is freely convertible into sterling at this rate, subject to banking commissions; the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of %6 of 1 per cent for both buying and selling. The banks in Guyana base the rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Guyana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Governor-General and the Minister of Finance.3 Authority for approving normal import pay- ments and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Shipping, and Civil Aviation. Prescription of Currency Guyana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign currency, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts f rom coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any foreign currency or in sterling or Guyana dollars from an External Account. Special regulations apply to payments to and receipts from Rhodesia. 1 Guyana became a member of the International Monetary Fund on Sep- tember 26, 1966. 2 In view of a development that took place on February 13, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 8 With effect from April 10, 1967, the administration of exchange control was entrusted to the Bank of Guyana. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Nonresident Accounts Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may maintain accounts in Guyana dollars in Guyana. These are treated in the same way as the Guyana dollar accounts of residents of Guyana; thus, no exchange control permission is required for transfers within the Sterling Area. There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana or other parts of the Sterling Area: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and with transfers f rom other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities, and balances on Blocked Accounts may be trans- ferred freely to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited. Imports subject to individual licensing are specified in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fa ts, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain- milling machinery, and appliances. The granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries except the Soviet countries and Mainland Ch ina ;4 for certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange con- trol fo rms have to be completed only for transactions exceeding G$240. An advance deposit of 100 per cent is required for payment against let- ters of credit. 4 The countries to which the open general license does not apply are listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to other countries of the Sterling Area are permitted freely without limit. All payments for invisibles to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which is given freely, except in some cases for payments of a personal nature. Limits are applied to certain payments on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666), for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld), for education at universities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each student), and for fam i ly maintenance (G$4,800). Applications for amounts in excess of the above must be submitted to the Bank of Guyana for approval. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not fo rm part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out in the fo rm of foreign currency notes as part of any travel exchange allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of rice may only be made by the Rice Marketing Board. Most exports are f ree of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies,5 surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in the specified currencies on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Nonresidents of the Sterling Area must obtain "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct invest- ments in new projects that would benefit Guyana or the balance of payments of the Sterling A rea; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment 5 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA the proceeds, including any capital increments, may be repatriated in fu l l. The export of capital to non-Sterling Area countries by residents is not normally permitted. Specified currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Changes during 1966 March 15. Hides and skins (undressed) were added to the "negative list" of commodities subject to export licensing. July 1. All trade with the Soviet countries and Mainland China was suspended. Notice to Importers No. 198 revoked all import licenses previously granted for imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. July 5. Guyana ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. July 14. A number of items, including grain-milling machinery and appliances, were added to the "negative list" of commodities subject to import licensing. July 14- Cattle, swine, beef, pork, and poultry were added to the "negative list" of commodities subject to export licensing. August 18. The 1963 regulation which had placed all imports from Japan under individual licensing was revoked; in addition to items on the "negative list," only shirts and pa jamas of Japanese origin remained subject to specific license. September 80. The West Indian dollar previously issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board ceased to be legal tender in Guyana. November 16. An advance deposit requirement of 100 per cent on import letters of credit was introduced. November 25. It was announced that import quotas had been estab- lished for imports f rom Soviet countries and Mainland China, and that applications for licenses could be submitted. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1967: February 13. An initial par value for the Guyana dollar of G$l.71429 = US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde or G 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commissions. There are no controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restric- tions on imports, none has so far been imposed. Imports of certain types of footwear and of a few other items are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require licenses. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. bank- notes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Changes during 1966 No significant changes took place during 1966. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, or Honduran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 1.98 buy- ing, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange com- mission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates plus an official exchange commission of % of 1 per cent. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased f rom local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1,1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempi- ras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made f ree ly; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Payments for and Proceeds front Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. Changes during 1966 May 6. The Industrial Development Law of April 30, 1958 was modified to permit the Government to grant additional tax concessions to export industries on the part of their production that is exported to countries ouside Central America, and to industries that could show that similar industries in other Central American countries were receiv- ing greater benefits than those offered in Honduras. September 23. Honduras was enabled by the Central American Eco- nomic Council to grant qualified industries reductions in import duties and other fees up to 20 per cent greater, and tax holidays for periods up to two years longer, than those granted by other Central American Common Market countries. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.155517 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar or HK$5.71429 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On December 31, 1966, rates in the official market were Is. S^d- sterling buying, and Is. 21%6d. sterling selling, per HK$1, or HK$5.691%2 buying, and HK$5.77% selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$5.72 buying, and HK$5.72% selling, per US$1. The official market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Fifty-one banks are authorized to conduct exchange trans- actions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The f ree market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, and all settle- ments except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the following paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong from, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the following: (1) bona fide trade between 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an authorized bank or for the settle- ment of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide family remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports f rom these terri- tories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The proceeds of exports to all other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling from an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency emanating from outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be sur- rendered to an authorized bank ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling Area; however, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing pay- ments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incom- ing payment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a foreign currency from outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Subject to certain requirements, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied with, authorized banks may, on application by merchants in Hong Kong undertaking a transaction in goods for their own account, make pay- ment to nonresidents of the Sterling Area for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling Area of goods originating outside the Sterling Area. Such payments may be made in sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any non-sterling area currency, provided 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG that such currency has not been acquired in the Hong Kong f ree market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated the same as accounts of residents of Hong Kong), those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any payment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign curren- cies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable and dangerous commodities, imports are free of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are ful- filled, and if related shipping documents are presented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding £10,000 in value f rom those coun- tries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports f rom Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, pay- ment is required in advance of shipment,8 and payment is not in accord- ance with the usual prescription of currency requirements; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export; and (3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange control form is required when the payment does not exceed £100 or the equivalent). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control, which is normally granted. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for resi- dents ( for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is £250 or the equivalent for each individual journey. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of certain strategic goods and of such commodities as textiles and garments are subject to restrictive licens- ing; exports of many textiles and garments to specified countries are restricted in accordance with bilateral agreements. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange con- trol. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the 8 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Republic of Korea of goods originating in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely disposable to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accord- ance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, from other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in Main- land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign capital is normally provided at the official market rate if the exchange control had given prior approval of the investment. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the f ree market. However, licenses are required for all receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1966 No significant changes took place during 1966. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0206668 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona or IKr 43.00=US$1. The official rates are IKr 42.95 buying, and IKr 43.06 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed; the buying and selling rates maintained for the currencies concerned by the Central Bank of Iceland d iffer from their parities by 0.12 per cent and 0.14 per cent, respectively. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. A fee of % of 1 per cent is charged on the kronur amount of foreign exchange sold by banks for most transactions; this results in an effective selling rate of IKr 43.28 per U.S. dollar. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce has the ultimate decision on matters con- cerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area. All settlements with the five countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agree- ments must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denomi- nated as follows: with Rumania and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic kronur; with Brazil and Hungary, in sterling; and with Eastern Germany, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars; with coun- tries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on January 11, 1967. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international trans- actions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other con- vertible currencies. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with payments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely without an import license from any country; about 87 per cent of total imports (1965 basis) is liberal- ized. Some 55 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Most of these goods are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The prin- cipal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from Rumania and the U.S.S.R. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are generally issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely for global quota items. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading; these include radio receivers and perfumes. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of % of 1 per cent (mini- mum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports from countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 125 per cent is charged as a license fee on the f.o.b. kronur amount of the import license for auto- mobiles from all sources (30 per cent for jeep-type vehicles). 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certifi- cate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. An exchange allocation for tourist travel is granted up to US$350 a year, or its equivalent in other currencies, for each person. Applications for exchange for repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. A fee of % of 1 per cent is charged on the kronur equivalent of fore ign exchange sold by banks for current invisibles, with the exception of exchange for expenditures connected with study abroad. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign banknotes and coins which they possess legally, and Icelandic banknotes and coins not exceeding IKr 2,500. Nonresidents may re-export the foreign bank- notes and coins, and up to IKr 2,500 of the Icelandic banknotes and coins, which they brought into Iceland. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing f rom exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts f rom freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance com- panies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Residents may bring in, upon re-entering the country, up to IKr 2,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins; the limit for nonresident travelers is IKr 5,000. There are no limitations on the import of foreign bank- notes and coins. Capital All foreign investments in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation of nonresidents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy, construction materials, etc. Commercial banks may freely permit import credits of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Changes during 1966 January 1. A fee of % of 1 per cent was charged on the kronur amount of foreign exchange sold by banks for most transactions. January 18. A license fee of 30 per cent was imposed on the f.o.b. kronur amount of the import license for jeep-type vehicles f rom all sources. January 21. Imports of iron, lumber, and several groups of other commodities were liberalized. The global quotas for 1966 were pub- lished; their total value amounted to IKr 134.7 million, compared with IKr 221.6 million for 1965. The reduction reflected the fur ther liberali- zation that had taken place. For the rema in ing global quota items, the value of the 1966 quotas exceeded the 1965 level by 60 per cent. March 15. The basic annual allocation for tourist travel abroad was increased f rom the equivalent of US$280 a person to the equivalent of US$350 a person. July 1. Imports of electric batteries and material therefor were liberalized. October 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. It was replaced by an agreement providing that payments would be made in freely convertible currencies. January 11. Further imports f rom all sources were liberalized; the main item affec ted was feedgrains. The global quotas for 1967 were announced. All feedgrains were exempted f rom the special regulations previously employed to ensure procurement under U.S. Public Law 480 arrangements; the authorized banks discontinued their control over purchases of feedgrains. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee or Rs 7.50000 = US$1. Transactions in fore ign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as fo l lows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot transactions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of foreign currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain currencies x against ster- ling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or fo rwa rd for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1966, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were £ stg. 4.7660 buying, and £ stg. 4.7380 selling, per Rs 100 and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were US$13.32 buying, and US$13.20 selling, per Rs 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell fore ign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries (see footnote 2 ), and the Convertible Account group (a ll other countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special payments arrange- ments with the Sudan and the United Arab Republic for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis and within specified ceilings. The State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement with the Tunisian agency OCET for balancing purchases and sales of specified commodities. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India.3 Payments to and f rom Bilateral Account coun- tries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or sterling to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts from the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency,5 in rupees f rom the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resi- dent accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts dis- tinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest and dividends, and other authorized payments, with authorized trans- fers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of sterling f rom the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports, and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for remit- tances by Indian nationals resident in the Sterling Area for credit to their accounts in India or for payment to Indian nationals resident in India. Transfers may be made f rom Convertible Accounts to other sThe prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of Mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to Mainland China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to Mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 8 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securi- ties, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks7 rupee accounts (see Prescription of Currency, abov e ); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrendered value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; pro- ceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750; and proceeds from the sale of Indian Government securities and of units issued by the Unit Trust of India which were originally purchased f rom funds in the same nonresident account. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on l ife insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due f rom the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents; investment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of bene- ficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally per- mitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remit- tance Scheme (Special) Accounts representing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds f rom sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital pro- ceeds that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA in approved Indian rupee securities; the income derived from such investments may normally be remitted to the owner's country, with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Raw materials required by certain export industries may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically all other imports require individual licenses. Import restrictions are minor on specified commodities required by 59 priority industries, including small-scale industries; special procedures are applicable to these commodities. Individual licenses may be issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except South A f r ica, South West Afr ica, and Rhodes ia ;7 imports f rom these countries are prohibited. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foods tuffs, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the fo rm of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for various categories of importers. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis, subject to the condition that for licenses issued to established importers only the first half of the annual license may be used in the first six months of the validity period of the annual license, and the second half of the license may be utilized, subject to such changes as may be decided upon, in the second six months and within the extended period of validity allowed for this purpose. This condition is not imposed on actual users, to whom annual licenses are issued. In other cases, licenses are issued for the first six months, and a supplementary license is issued later for the second six months. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fu lf i ll govern- ment contracts and for irrigation projects. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of 7 Imports from Pakistan were suspended between September 1965 and May 1966. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited from taking out l i fe insurance policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or are subject to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigra- tion facilities; such remittances are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals other than nationals of Pakistan up to Rs 2,360 a month, or up to the foreign currency amount of the monthly average of remittances made by the person concerned during the last 12 months prior to June 6,1966, whichever is less. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual basis; no exchange is granted for tourist travel. Travel agents and companies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals tem- porarily resident in India) unless the traveler has been granted travel 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permis- sion by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.8 The export of Indian currency notes and coins except to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers to Ceylon and Pakistan, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time. Residents may take out foreign notes and coins up to Rs 63 a person : authorized money-changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell fore ign currency notes up to a value of Rs 63 a person to all pas- sengers, whether Indian or fo re ign, who have made payments for the fa re in rupees in Ind ia; nonresidents may take out the fore ign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodi- ties may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled com- modities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to South A f r ica, South West A f r ica, Tibet, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to coun- tries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currencies 9 must be offered for sale against rupees to an au thor- ized dealer, unless the ho lder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on July 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by him, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. 8 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, however, for the following: deck passengers to or from Burma, Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Pakistan, Persian Gulf ports, or East Afr ica; UN staff members and their families whose tickets are purchased by or on instructions from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official du ty; travel between India and Pakistan by persons holding restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or India-Pakistan passports; air travel between Madras/Tiruchirapalli and Colombo, Ceylon; and travel between Nepal and India. 9 The list includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European cur- rencies (including sterling), Djibouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malayan dollars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Some ma jor exports, including tea and ju te manufactures, are sub- ject to export duties. Some items accounting for a small part of total exports receive cash assistance; they are mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies (see footnote 9) must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, pro- hibited. However, deck passengers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Afr ica, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount f rom India. Persons coming to India f rom Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to an authorized money-changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Paki- stan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects af ter January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the origi- nal investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Local borrowing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partnership firms or corporate bodies to accept appointment as agents or technical advisors. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration pur- poses. In exceptional cases, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of Us 20,000 at the time of emigration and in three subsequent annual installments of Rs 10,000 each. The remainder of an emigrant's assets are blocked; only income on such blocked assets is thereafter allowed to be remitted up to a limit of Rs 20,000 per annum. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the pro- ceeds f rom the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addi- tion, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to non- residents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations. Changes during 1966 During the year, the bilateral payments arrangements with Pakistan were allowed to expire. January 28. The "Gulf rupee" issued by the Reserve Bank of India was withdrawn f rom circulation in Bahrain. May 27. The suspension of direct and indirect imports from and exports to Pakistan was rescinded. May 31. The National Defence Remittance Scheme was terminated; import licenses under the Scheme could be obtained up to August 31, 1966. June 6. The par value of the rupee was changed from Rs. 4.76190 per US$1 to Rs 7.50000 per US$1. The Tax Credit Certificate (Exports) Scheme and the various export promotion schemes were eliminated. The 10 per cent customs surcharge previously applied to virtually all imports was abolished. Export duties were levied on tea, ju te manu- factures, and certain other products. Subsequently, substantial changes were made in exchange and trade regulations as well as in import duties. They included the following: (1) Fifty-nine specified priority industries, including the ma jor export industries, industries producing essential consumer goods, and 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA capital goods industries, were allowed to import the raw materials, components, and spare parts necessary to maintain production at fu ll capacity for six months. Applications for a supplementary license would be considered when a letter of credit for not less than 90 per cent of the face value of the license had been opened, or when docu- mentary evidence was produced to show that shipments of 70 per cent of the face value of the initial license had been effected. Small-scale industries producing the same goods as the 59 priority industries would receive licenses equivalent to three times the licenses given to them in 1964/65 or twelve times the value of the license for the period April 1965 to March 1966. Supplementary licenses would be issued to these small-scale industries upon application when goods covering half the f a ce value of the original license had been shipped. For other small- scale industries, the licenses granted would be twice as much as in 1964/65 or eight times the value of the license for April 1965-March 1966. No liberalization was undertaken in respect of capital goods. (2) The raw materials required by certain export industries ( ju te textiles, cashew nut processing, and tanning) were placed on an open general license that was valid initially for shipments up to March 31, 1967. (3) Actual users and traders were granted licenses freely for importation f rom the United States, against U.S. AID nonproject loans, of certain spare parts not produced in India, e.g., spare parts of earth- moving and construction equipment. (4) The value in terms of foreign exchange of import licenses to be granted to established importers for specified essential commodities was increased by percentages ranging f rom 5 to 75; these commodities included printing and lithographic material (50 per cen t), machinery required for the ju te and tea industries, electric power plants, and mines and quarries (30 per cent), scientific and surgical instruments and equipment (20 per cen t), and drugs, medicines, and spare parts for agricultural tractors (15 per cent). (5) With a view to increasing agricultural production, special arrangements were made to facilitate large imports of fertilizer, pesticides, sulphur, and rock phosphate. (6) Restrictions on imports of certain essential drugs and of books for libraries and educational institutions were eased. June 16. Qatar and the Trucial States, with the exception of Abu Dhabi, adopted the Saudi Arabian riyal as their unit of currency to replace the "Gulf rupee." Later in the year, the Saudi Arabian riyal was replaced by the Qatar-Dubai riyal, 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA June 18. Abu Dhabi adopted the Bahrain dinar as legal tender, to replace the "Gulf rupee." June 23. Open general licenses were introduced for a number of raw materials. Restrictions on imports of specified raw materials, com- ponents, and spare parts for actual users in small-scale industries were relaxed substantially. June 28. Restrictions on imports of specified commodities required by 59 priority industries accounting for about 85 per cent of total industrial production were relaxed substantially. June 29. Detailed regulations for a Government of India Scheme for special educational loans for Indian students who were already studying abroad were published; five-year or ten-year rupee loans at low interest rates were granted to cover the difference between the rupee counter- value at the new and the old par value of the foreign exchange remit- tances previously granted to such students (these remittances were continued without change). July 29. The period during which import licenses under the National Defence Remittance Scheme could be obtained was extended until December 31,1966. August 16. Some exports, mainly new manufac tures such as engi- neering goods, were granted cash assistance for market development. August 16. A third group of importers, registered exporters, was created (additional to established importers and actual use rs ); they would receive import licenses on the basis of the import content of their exports. October 17. The Indian rupee ceased to be legal tender in Nepal. October 24. The list of machine tools prohibited for importation was extended. November 5. The import of additional types of ball bearings was prohibited. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. The official exchange rate, called the transaction rate, is Rp 0.25 = US$1. All transactions at this rate are subject to a pre- mium or charge of Rp 9.75 per US$1, giving rise to an effective trans- action rate of Rp 10 per US$1, buying and selling. This rate is applica- ble to payments and receipts of petroleum companies and to the ex- change allocated to the regional authorities; it also serves as the basis for the calculation of the effective rates for most other receipts. Export- ers other than petroleum companies are entitled to receive an export bonus (BE) corresponding to a specified percentage of their export pro- ceeds. The bonus is negotiable in a fluctuating f ree market. On the demand side, access to this market is reserved for imports of goods on the so-called BE List. On December 28, 1966 the market rate for BE exchange was Rp 85 per US$1, buying and selling. Depending on the category of exports, the portion of export receipts that must be sur- rendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund is 50, 25, or 10 per cent, giving rise to effective buying rates of Rp 47.50, Rp 66.25, and Rp 77.50 per US$1, respectively; other effective rates, however, may arise as a result of mixing with the DP rate (see be low). Export proceeds are surrendered on the basis of "posted prices" ("f.o.b.-net prices") for each commodity. If a price higher than the "posted price" is secured, the excess ("overprice") may be retained by the exporter or sold through an authorized bank in a separate free market, the DP market. Prescribed percentages, ranging f rom zero to 100 per cent, of receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund at the effective transaction rate. Export proceeds resulting from "overprices" and foreign exchange receipts from invisibles in excess of the surrender requirements may be held abroad by the initial holder or be deposited as Complementary Foreign Exchange (Devisa Pelengkap or DP) in a DP "A account" with an authorized foreign exchange bank. Complementary Foreign Exchange may be sold once; a DP "B account" is then established with an authorized foreign exchange bank in the name of the buyer. Comple- mentary Foreign Exchange in either a DP "A account" or a DP "B account" may be used freely to pay for any imports, except sedan automobiles and ceramic tiles. Complementary Foreign Exchange in DP "A accounts" may also be used freely for payments in respect of 1 Indonesia resumed membership February 21,1967. in the International Monetary Fund on 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA invisibles. The use of Complementary Foreign Exchange in DP "B accounts" for payments for invisibles, however, is subject to licensing. On December 28, 1966 the market rate for Complementary Foreign Exchange was Rp 105 per US$1, buying and selling. Payments for certain invisibles and for government imports and aid imports are effected at a fixed rate, the BE (BNI) rate, which is periodically set by the Indonesian State Bank, Unit I.2 On December 28, 1966 this rate was Rp 85 per US$1. The corresponding buying rate of Rp 84.50 is applicable to local expenditures of foreign embassies and to BE's sold to the Indonesian State Bank, Unit I. The Foreign Exchange Fund allots, at a rate of Rp 10 per US$1, 10 per cent of export proceeds in each category of exports, based on "posted prices," to regional authorities ("ADO foreign exchange"). This exchange is shared by the authorities of the region in which the exports originated and those of the region from which the exports were shipped abroad; it may be used for import payments by the regional authorities, or it may be sold in the BE market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions (BLLD), which is under the direction of the Governor of the Central Bank. The Bureau also issues exchange licenses for imports and invisibles payable with foreign exchange from the Foreign Exchange Fund. Export licenses are issued by local branches of the Export Directorate of the Ministry of Trade. The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Unit I of the Indonesian State Bank, the Ministry of Trade, the Bureau of Foreign Ex- change Transactions, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the cus- toms authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Generally, payments are made in convertible currencies, but settlements with countries with which Indonesia has bilateral pay- ments arrangements are made through special clearing accounts.3 In addition, under an arrangement agreed upon between the Indonesian State Bank, Unit I, and the Netherlands Bank, payments for imports f rom the Netherlands may be settled through a special bilateral account ("A account"). 2 Bank Negara Indonesia, Unit I. 3 Indonesia maintains bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, Pakistan, Philippines, and Poland. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts, since the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act only distinguishes foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and an initial deposit is required for registration; registration is automatically authorized, how- ever, for exporters who also want to establish themselves as importers. Imports are classified in four categories: Category I includes certain essential items, such as rice, fertilizers, medicines, and books for study; Category II includes exchange-earning or exchange-saving raw mate- rials, semifinished goods, and capital equipment; Category III includes other raw materials and semifinished commodities used to produce goods for domestic consumption, as well as motor vehicles for transpor- tation of commodities; and Category IV includes all other goods. There is also a so-called Enclosure V, which comprises goods f rom the vari- ous categories that are "banned" or protected; their import requires a special permit from the Ministry of Trade. With the exception of sedan automobiles and ceramic tiles, all com- modities listed in Categories I-IV may be imported if payment is made with DP exchange. If paid for with "ADO foreign exchange," only commodities listed in Categories I-III may be imported. If payment is made with "BE foreign exchange," only goods on the so-called BE List are importable; the list comprises mainly goods from Categories I, II, and III, as well as a few items from Category IV. Imports paid for in any one of the ways mentioned above do not require an import license; documentary evidence, including an Import Declaration (P I ), must be submitted, however, to the authorized foreign exchange bank making the payment. These imports may be effected through all ports in the Indonesian customs territory, but not through Sabang, which is a free port. Imports that are paid for with foreign exchange derived from the resources of the Foreign Exchange Fund require an import/ exchange license f rom the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. Import licenses and foreign exchange for imports are made available for the c. & f. value of the imports; insurance must be obtained in Indonesia. Import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports at a rate of Rp 75 per US$1; this rate is reviewed every three months. Fifty per cent of the duties is payable when the Import Declaration is sub- mitted or the import/exchange license is issued and the remainder 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA when the goods are cleared through customs. An import surcharge of 50 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on the importation of certain nonessential goods. Excess profit levies of Rp 20 and Rp 30 per US$1 are applied to imports of luxury goods and protected goods. A BLLD import fee of 1 per cent is levied on all payments for imports; it is calculated at the rate applicable for the calculation of import duty, i.e., at Rp 75 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with Complementary Foreign Exchange f rom a DP "A account." Payments for invisibles with foreign exchange f rom a DP "B account" or f rom the Foreign Exchange Fund must be authorized by either a general or a special license. General licenses are issued to the authorized banks to make payments for specified invisibles (e.g., those relating to trade trans- actions) without fur ther authorization from the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. Special licenses are required for payments in excess of the limits established in the general licenses and for payments not covered by the general licenses (e.g., for advertising fees, film rentals, royalties, registration fees for patents and trademarks, sub- scriptions to newspapers and periodicals, memberships in associations, charitable remittances, salaries of foreign experts, travel, and s tudy). Licenses are usually not granted for invisibles other than government payments or public sector payments and pilgrimages. All other pay- ments for current invisibles are made with DP foreign exchange. A BLLD fee of 1 per cent is payable for payments in respect of invisibles. Travelers may take out Rp 500 in Indonesian banknotes and the equivalent of US$100 in foreign banknotes (or any larger amount in foreign banknotes, provided that they are registered in the traveler's passport). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses from the local branches of the Export Directorate of the Ministry of Trade. Certain commodities (including soybeans, tapioca, cassava, and corn) may be exported only if author- ized by the regional authorities. Exports may be made by registered private firms as well as state trading firms. All exporters except the petroleum companies and the state trading firms must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit cover- ing at least the "f.o.b.-net" value of the goods to be exported. Upon shipment of the goods and upon receipt of the export documents by the bank, exporters are credited with a certain portion, depending on 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA the category of exports, of the export proceeds calculated in accordance with the "f.o.b.-net prices/7 which are announced for each commodity (other than petroleum) at regular intervals. This portion of export proceeds is the "export bonus"; it is freely negotiable and may be used to pay for imports of specified commodities on the BE List. For the purpose of determining the export bonus, exports are grouped into three categories. Exports in Category I (including rubber, copra, pepper, tea, tin, and tobacco) are eligible for a 50 per cent export bonus. Exports in Category II (among which are hides, coffee, cocoa, livestock, kapok, and oilseeds) are eligible for an export bonus of 75 per cent. An export bonus of 90 per cent is accorded to exports in Category III (which includes all other goods). The remainder of the export proceeds calculated at the "f.o.b.-net price" must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund at Rp 10 per US$1. If a price higher than the "f.o.b.-net price" is secured, the exporter is free to retain the additional proceeds ("overprice") as Complementary Foreign Exchange. The export bonus is valid for three months f rom the date it is credited to the exporter's account at an authorized bank. During this period, the exchange may be used to pay for imports of goods on the BE List or it may be sold to an authorized importer or to the Indonesian State Bank, Unit I, at a rate established periodically; on December 28, 1966, this rate was Rp 84.50 per US$1. Each sale is made by debiting the seller's BE account and crediting the buyer's BE account, but only for the remainder of the original three-month validity of the bonus. Af ter the validity of the bonus, it can only be exchanged at the rate of Rp 10 per US$1. No customs duties are levied on exports. However, a BLLD fee of y8 of 1 per cent of the "f.o.b.-net" value of the goods shipped is payable; the fee is calculated at a rate of Rp 10 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Services provided by Indonesian residents to foreign countries or foreign nationals must generally be paid for in foreign exchange. Dependent on the type of service, a certain portion (ranging f rom zero to 100 per cent) of the proceeds f rom services must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Shipping companies, insurance com- panies, hotels, and Indonesian airline companies that are not subject to surrender requirements must deposit their entire foreign exchange receipts with an authorized foreign exchange bank; they must obtain the approval of the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions before using the deposits for payments in respect of foreign currency ex- 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA penses, and conversion of the deposits into rupiahs to meet rupiah expenses is subject to specific license. Private persons of foreign nationality in Indonesia may retain on a DP "A account" all income in foreign exchange except that resulting from exports and certain services; foreign persons belonging to the diplomatic or consular corps must surrender their foreign exchange to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Capital Pending the enactment of a new Foreign Investment Law, a status quo is maintained concerning capital movements and all relevant outward transfers are postponed except, with a special permit, with DP exchange. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities, provided that no retransfer and/or profit or amortization transfer is required other than with DP exchange. Under the Foreign Exchange Act of 1964, Indonesian nationals, natural persons as well as corporate bodies, must deposit (lodge) their Indonesian securities issued before December 29, 1949 by Indonesian corporate bodies and their foreign securities with one of the foreign exchange banks in Indonesia or with one of their correspondents abroad (in a custody account in the name of the foreign exchange bank concerned). Foreign nationals, natural persons as well as cor- porate bodies, must deposit their Indonesian securities with one of the foreign exchange banks in Indonesia, while their foreign securities must be deposited with one of the foreign exchange banks or one of their correspondents abroad, if the securities were acquired before the enactment of the Foreign Exchange Act of 1964. The export of rupiah securities is prohibited, except by special license. Indonesian nationals are not allowed to export foreign securi- ties except by virtue of a special or general permit of the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. The export of foreign securities by foreign nationals also requires a permit from the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 28, 1966) (rupiahs per t/jS. dollar} Buying 0.25 (Transaction Rate, Fixed Rate) No transactions. 10.00 (Transaction Rate plus Rp 9.75 Premium) All exchange receipts of petroleum com- panies. That part of other receipts from exports and invisibles that must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund. 47.50 (50% at BE Rate and 50% at Rp 10 Rate) * Category I exports. 66.25 (75% at BE Rate and 25% at Rp 10 Rate) * Category II exports. 77.50 (90% at BE Rate and 10% at Rp 10 Rate)4 Category III exports. 84.50 (BE (BNI) Rate) Local expenditures of foreign embas- sies. Export bonus certificates sold by exporters to Indonesian State Bank, Unit I. 85.00 (BE Rate, Fluctuating Rate) The part of export proceeds that is retained by the exporter and sold in the export bonus market. 105.00 (DP Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Foreign exchange corresponding to export "overprices" or to the portion of receipts from invisibles that is not subject to surrender requirements. Selling 0.25 (Transaction Rate, Fixed Rate) No transactions. 10.00 (Transaction Rate plus Rp 9.75 Charge) All exchange payments by petroleum companies. Foreign exchange allotted to regional authorities by the Foreign Exchange Fund. 85.00 (BE (BNI) Rate) All aid imports. All central govern- ment imports. Invisibles paid for with exchange granted by the Foreign Exchange Fund. 85.00 (BE Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All imports in the BE List, when financed with export bonus certificates. 105.00 (DP Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All imports or invisibles when paid for with Complementary Foreign Ex- change. Changes during 1966 [In December 1965, the new rupiah had replaced the old rupiah at a rate of Rp 1 = 1,000 old rupiahs.] February 22. Exporters were granted a certain percentage of their export proceeds in the form of nonnegotiable foreign exchange in a 4 Other effective export rates may arise when exporters sell goods at prices in excess of officially established "posted prices" and sell the difference ("over- price") in the DP market. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA BE account with their authorized bank. This exchange was referred to as export bonus (BE) and could be used to import goods on the Commodity Import Program List (later called the BE List). Exports were grouped into three categories. Exporters of commodities in Category I, consisting of all ma jor exports (the "hard products"), were entitled to 10 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds as BE exchange. Exporters of commodities in Category II, containing other products with a regular market abroad, were eligible for 15 per cent BE exchange. Exporters of goods in Category III, covering all other products, were entitled to 50 per cent BE exchange. Imports paid for with BE exchange were freed from import licensing requirements; instead, only an import declaration (PI) was needed, which could be submitted direct to the authorized bank. However, 50 per cent of any imports made with BE exchange was subject to authorization by the authorities of the region where the exports originated and/or of the region f rom where they were shipped overseas. May 20. The percentages of export bonus (BE) were raised for commodities in Categories I, II, and III to 20, 60, and 100 per cent, respectively. The coverage of Category II was enlarged by transferring to it coffee from Category I and a number of other items f rom Category III. In addition, BE's were made negotiable ( for one sale only) among registered importers. Regional authorities were entitled to receive a regional export premium (BED) of 10 per cent of any export proceeds in excess of the specific export target fixed for their region by the Ministry of Trade. October 8. The percentages of export bonus (BE) were fur ther raised for Categories I, II, and III to 50, 75, and 90 per cent, respectively. The regional export premium and the requirement that 50 per cent of the use of BE's be authorized by regional authorities were abolished. The Foreign Exchange Fund would henceforth grant the regional authorities an exchange allocation ("ADO foreign exchange") of 10 per cent of export proceeds at the periodically established BE rate. This allocation had to be shared by the regional authorities in the area of origin and that of shipment. October 14. A bilateral payments agreement with the Philippines signed on August 27, 1966 became effective. Most trade transactions were to be invoiced in U.S. dollars and covered by irrevocable U.S. dollar letters of credit, and the corresponding payments were to be channeled through a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. October 17. A surcharge on less essential goods of 50 per cent of the existing import duty was introduced. In addition, excess profit levies of Rp 20 and Rp 30 per US$1 on the c.i.f. value of imports were intro- duced on luxury imports and protected imports, respectively. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA December 20. It was announced that payments on Indonesia's long- term foreign debt to France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States, which had been in arrears since 1965, would be rearranged. Arrears up to June 3D, 1966 and amortization and interest falling due during the period June 30, 1966-December 31, 1967 would be payable over a period of eight years commencing in 1971. Arrears on commercial credits of 180 days or less would be rearranged in such a way as not to impose an excessive burden on the balance of payments. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies quoted by the central b a n kx are based on these buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into consideration the exchange rates of the quoted cur- rencies in the international exchange markets. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the author- ized banks with due regard to the rates against the U.S. dollar cur- rently quoted in the international exchange markets. The fo l low ing charges are levied by the authorized banks on the amount of exchange sold for imports: % of 1 per cent for sanitary services, and %0 of 1 per cent of the invoice amount for the Export Promotion Fund. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central b ank ). All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is gov- erned by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Economy under the approval of the Cabinet. Import policy is formulated within an over-all foreign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations with Albania, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, and North Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation within the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the five countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Proceeds f rom exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. A bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria was concluded on February 9,1967. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain Foreign Nationals' Accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only for payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effec- tive for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,8 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted f rom the "authorized" list to the "unau- thorized" list, as well as goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authoriza- tions are given. Imports free of charge of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and the central bank of I ran; permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable insti- tutions or government organizations; machinery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institutions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. Specified commodities, such as tobacco and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Gold may be imported only by the central bank. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, payment for all com- mercial imports must be made through the official exchange market. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or docu- mentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be 8 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral import/export list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN made without authorization for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission f rom the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Special regulations apply to certain commodities originating in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, importers are required to deposit with the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rls 3 per US$1 of the amount of the import order for goods eligible for payment against bills for collection, and Rls 11.50, Rls 31.50, and Rls 76.50 (depending on the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment must be made against a documentary letter of credit. This deposit is liable to fo r fe i tu re up to Rls 3 per US$1 in the event that any misrepresentation by the importer is subsequently discovered but it is otherwise refundab le upon presentation of the cus- toms clearance certificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping docu- ments by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, in addition to tariffs, which are either specific or ad valorem. The ad valorem com- mercial profit tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 225 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial profit taxes. The authorities spec- ify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. All taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping docu- ments approved by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received f rom government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Payments for noncommercial invisibles require licenses from the central bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries—may be sold by authorized banks upon presenta- tion of the traveler's passport. For children under 12 years of age the allowances are 30 per cent of the above amounts.4 Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrim- age travel for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (w ife and children from 7-18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrimages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodi- ties require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax charged at the time of import on materials contained in goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsidies (that are announced semiannually), the Ministry of Economy pays the exporter 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of manganese ore; 9 per cent of the 4 On January 20, 1967 the Bank Markazi Iran authorized all banks to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$140 to Iranian nationals for any purpose. The submission of supporting documents was not required. The exchange could only be sold in the form of mail or telegraphic transfers. The US$500 travel allowance was not affected. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN f.o.b. value of first-grade and second-grade pickled skins (salambore); and 7% per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of chromite ore. However, the actual rates paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy are 90 per cent of the percentages mentioned for ores and 75 per cent of that indicated for pickled skins; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to promote exports. The exporter must o f fer for surrender the foreign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered or held in a foreign currency account in the name of the recipient with an authorized bank and under the control of the central bank. The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Upon arrival in Iran, travelers of Iranian nation- ality must either sell their foreign exchange to an authorized bank or deposit it in a temporary foreign exchange account, from which trans- fers abroad or to Foreign Nationals' Accounts require licenses from the central bank. Other travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Transfers of capital abroad require the approval of the central bank. Except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the law concerning the encouragement and pro- tection of foreign capital investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved develop- ment or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or trans- port may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is con- 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN verted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of applica- tion for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the pro- posed investments. Changes during 1966 February 28. The opening of letters of credit for imports of tractors was made subject to the permission of the Ministry of Economy. March 14- Registration of import orders for 24 types of drugs was no longer permitted. March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iranian year 1345 (March 21, 1966-March 20, 1967) were published by the Ministry of Economy. There were few ma jor changes, there being a continuation of policies of protection for Iranian industry and restrictions on imports of luxury and nonessential commodities. Six items were added to the "unauthorized" import list; two were moved to the "authorized" list from the "unauthorized" list. The commercial profit tax was raised on imports of 35 items and decreased on 9 items. Commercial imports "free of payment" and imports to be settled by compensation against export proceeds were made subject to the permission of the Ministry of Economy and the Bank Markazi Iran; the former could previously be financed either through the unoff ic ial exchange market or with exchange receipts that were not subject to surrender requirements. March 21. All tractor imports were made subject to the approval of the Ministries of Economy and Agriculture. March 21. The export subsidy on packed raisins was abolished, the subsidy on first-grade and second-grade pickled skins was reduced from 12% per cent to 10 per cent, and that on chromite ore was reduced from 10 per cent to 7% per cent. April 9. Permission was given to import the following goods either without transfer of foreign exchange or by payment f rom exchange earnings accruing abroad from invisibles: (1) goods imported free of charge for official charitable institutions and government organizations; (2) machinery spare parts and raw or intermediate materials with a maximum cost of US$500 f.o.b. for each shipment, provided that the import served to make good any deficiencies or to replace damaged goods in earlier consignments; and (3) any commodity that was not a "prohibited" item, with a maximum value of US$150 f.o.b. for each shipment. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN April 18. The import of specified types of bottled alcoholic beverages on the "unauthorized" import list was authorized by the Ministry of Economy. April 24. The import of specified types of industrial plant and capital goods was no longer subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; the list of goods was extended on May 21. June 13. The resignation of import orders for bobbinet originating in Mainland China or Hong Kong was no longer permitted. June 23. The import of cows, calves, and sheep by land without payment was permitted. July 17. The registration of import orders for tractors was not permitted. August 2. Foreign exchange allowances for travel to specified coun- tries were no longer subject to the presentation of visas. August 9. The import of plastic-making machines was made subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. August 24. The existing deposit charge of Rls 1.50 per US$1 for registration of imports was increased to Rls 3 for imports eligible for payment by bills for collection. August 24. Re funds of advance deposits against import letters of credit (Rls 10.00, Rls 30.00, and Rls 75.00 per US$1, according to the classification of the import), which had hitherto been made upon clear- ance of documents, were postponed until clearance of the goods through customs. As a result, the deposits were effectively amalgamated with registration deposits (Rls 1.50 per US$1 for imports required to be settled against letters of credit, repayable on clearance of goods through customs) to establish registration deposits of Rls 11.50, Rls 31.50, and Rls 76.50 per US$1. September 7. The registration of import orders for specified textile items originating in Mainland China or Hong Kong was no longer permitted. September 22. The export subsidy on first-grade and second-grade pickled skins was reduced from 10 per cent to 9 per cent. September 27. The import of goods originating in Mainland China and North Korea was made subject to reference to the Foreign Trans- actions Corporation of the Ministry of Economy. October 31. The import of goods originating in Albania was made subject to reference to the Foreign Transactions Corporation of the Ministry of Economy. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN October 81. The registration of import orders for tractors was allowed, subject to the permission of the Ministry of Economy. November 1. The import of shoe-making machines valued at more than Rls 30,000 was made subject to the permission of the Ministry of Economy. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar or ID 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currenc iesx or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. The official rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966 were US$2.7905 buying, and US$2.7819 selling, per ID 1. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 (with the exception of certain exempted amounts; see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 (with the same exemptions) granted during any calendar year. There is a small free market (mainly in banknotes) in Iranian rials and Saudi Arabian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. The Directorate- General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the licensing authority for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,1 or, under bilateral payments agreements,2 in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions permitted in convertible l rThe listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Iraq has bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. There is an inactive payments agreement with Lebanon. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain capital goods are prohibited. Imports of some 69 commodities are prohibited from all sources. Imports of jute, sugar, tea, olive oil, and certain medical supplies are a government monopoly. All private imports are licensed in accordance with an annual quota system. Quotas are distributed by the Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in accordance with its own criteria; each category of importers is limited to specified types of commodities. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and construction materials for industrial use. Some commodities may only be imported by government agencies or state trading companies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Govern- ment. New importers who meet the requirements may also be granted import privileges. Licenses for private imports are valid for 6 months f rom the date of issue and are automatically renewable for a similar period if a letter of credit has been opened. Licenses for imports by the Government or by official agencies are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 300 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 150 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and of ID 50 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject to a limit of ID 600 for each passport covering more than one person. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraq is). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500, with the following exemptions: ID 150 for persons 18 years of age or over, ID 75 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fu lf i l lment of certain formalities. The following are exempt f rom the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovernment, and public utility departments, certain persons traveling for study pur- poses, foreigners except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong and Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agricultural products when supply fa l ls short of domestic demand. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricultural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange pro- ceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds f rom exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf area (excluding Iran) and India are exempt f rom these requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 5 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting opera- tions in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits of foreign service companies (companies rendering services only) is transferable. The transfer of profits from foreign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for commercial, bank- ing, and insurance companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. Inter- est payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. Imports of capital from Israel are prohibited. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Under the Industrial Development Law (No. 31 of 1961) and the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption during the first five years of operation from income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraqi citizens or Arabs; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power-generating plant, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanu- factured products into finished products, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms (except banks) 8 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Changes during 1966 January L The import program for the public and private sectors for 1966 took effect. Imports (other than defense items and goods for industrial projects executed by foreign firms) would amount to US$364 million. The import of luxury items would remain severely restricted. 3 All commercial banks and July 14,1964. insurance companies were nationalized on 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ May 4- The circulation of Iranian rials was prohibited in certain northern provinces. September 12. Licensed dealers could hold balances of listed cur- rencies not exceeding in value 10 per cent of the total of their documen- tary credits and other outstanding liabilities with their correspondents abroad. October 6. The Higher Supply Committee approved a d ra ft notifica- tion concerning the beginning of the implementation of the Arab Common Market. Attached were lists of livestock products, agricultural products, and industrial products, the liberalization of which from import and export restrictions the Committee recommended. October 10. The Higher Supply Committee liberalized the export of all winter and summer crops. The Ministry of Economy reserved the right to prohibit the export of any of the items concerned when supply did not cover domestic demand. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound or £Ir 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. Certain capital transactions involving investment currency or property currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at different effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; certain insurance payments within the Sterling Area, however, may be made in non-Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any specified currency.1 The proceeds of per- mitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in specified currency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- l rThe specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Blocked Accounts and Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold by a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Ster- ling Area, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds not eligible for transfer that are due to persons resident outside the Sterling Area.2 These funds arise f rom such sources as the sale of Irish securities, proceeds from sales of real estate exceeding £1,000, and the Irish estates of persons who at the time of death were resident outside the Sterling Area. Funds in these accounts may be invested through the stock exchange in Irish or sterling securities which cannot be redeemed within five years f rom the date of investment. They may also be used for expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly during visits to Ireland and for the upkeep of the account holder's property in Ireland. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred freely to other Blocked Accounts in Ireland or in the United Kingdom. Holders of Blocked Accounts may avail themselves of facilities for the sale of funds in such accounts at the prevailing price for blocked sterling (normally at a slight discount). Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other non- balance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis. Individual import licenses are required for these 2 Residents of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Greenland/Norway, and Sweden may transfer their capital freely to their respective countries, so that Blocked Accounts are not applicable to residents of these countries. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles originating in any of 16 specified countries or territories.3 All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months af ter the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted auto- matically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of £250 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to £1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other pur- poses. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than £250 of a foreign currency allowance may be issued in the fo rm of currency notes. Persons traveling to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Sterling Area (other than in Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of 8 These are Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in specified curren- cies, the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if specified currencies are received they must be sold to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign exchange held by a person a f ter his return f rom a trip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emi- grating to countries outside the Sterling Area (other than Rhodesia) are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a family. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds £5,000, the transfer of the excess amount outside the Sterling Area is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., f rom the date of departure from Ireland. Thereafter, the assets would be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling Area residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred abroad through the investment currency market (see be low). Applications for the transfer of capital for purposes other than emigration are considered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area require approval and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in specified currencies must be sold to an author- ized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling Area securities4 sold outside the Sterling Area, may be fully reinvested in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7,1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is carried 4 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities expressed in the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than the Rhodesian pound. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stock- broker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. In certain cases, the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling Area are eligible for investment in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The foreign currency proceeds (referred to as property currency) from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property owned by residents, mainly houses and apartments, may be used, subject to individual permission, to purchase for personal use a house or apartment in a country outside the Sterling Area; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Ster- ling Area. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between residents of the Sterling Area. Specific approval is required for all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. Changes during 1966 January 21. Exchange control regulations removed, with respect to Rhodesia, the general exchange control exemptions applicable to terri- tories outside the Sterling Area. The new regulations had the effect that payments for imports of goods and services from Rhodesia required the approval of the Central Bank, that currency notes could not be exported by travelers to Rhodesia except as permitted by the Central Bank, and that exports to Rhodesia must be paid for in a specified currency. January 21. By an Order made under the Restriction of Imports Act, 1962, the importation of goods from Rhodesia was prohibited except under license. March 31. The temporary import levy imposed on November 2, 1965 was continued in operation until June 30,1966. June 30. The temporary import levy was continued in operation until September 30,1966. July 1. An Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement entered into force. Import duties on most goods of U.K. origin were reduced by 10 per cent, and those on a wide range of goods originating in Northern Ireland by 20 per cent. With minor exceptions, quantitative restrictions on imports of U.K. origin were abolished. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND July 1. Imports of certain commodities previously subject to global quotas were liberalized f rom all sources; these items included motor vehicles and certain tires and tubes. July 28. Banks and travel agents were not permitted to authorize non-Sterling Area currency facilities for travel purposes to residents of the United Kingdom or any other Sterling Area country unless the applicant produced evidence of the approval of the Bank of England or his local exchange control and intended to commence his jou rney within three months f rom the date of approval. August 18. Declared assets in excess of £5,000 of persons emigrating on or after this date were restricted for a four-year period f rom the date of redesignation as a nonresident; during that period the funds could be disposed of for non-Sterling Area currency through the invest- ment currency market, and afterward any remaining assets would be transferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident. Previously, emigrants7 assets in excess of £5,000 could be realized at any time through the security sterling market. September 80. The temporary import levy on certain finished con- sumer goods was abolished. November 1. Banks and travel agents were instructed that, in keep- ing with the United Kingdom's new travel allowance regulations, the cost of hotel accommodation or similar services outside the Sterling Area should be deducted from any allowance duly approved for residents of the United Kingdom. November 80. The scheme of "market development grants" on exports of manufactured goods to the United Kingdom lapsed with the termination on this date of that country's temporary import charge. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.296224 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound or I£3.00 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with coun- tries with which payments agreements are in force * are usually made in U.S. dollars or sterling as accounting units. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on fore ign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account free ly; when in Israel, he may convert funds held on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts— for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for former residents —may be established only with special approval. Avia- tion, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the off ic ial rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to requirements; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securi- ties, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£100 a day for the account holder and for each member of his family, for remittances of up to I£2,500 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the payment of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived f rom former investments which are not eligible for transfer at the official rate and 1 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Cuba. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL funds left behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (slightly over one half of total imports in 1966) must be approved as importers by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are f ree of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Auto- matic Approval List (more than one third of total imports), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of pay- ment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is pre- scribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Seven basic food products are imported exclusively by or for account of the Govern- ment of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. An import license may prescribe whether, if payment is to be made by documentary credit, the fu ll amount of foreign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the credit; in such cases, funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on consignment, provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and under- takes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods with the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$30, which is obtainable on demand, for the purchase of books, membership dues, etc., and US$50 for certain other purposes (e.g., registration in a uni- 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL versity).2 For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$500 a traveler for each journey.8 Not more than I£100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£900. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax; the tax is LE255 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by sea, and I£290 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by air. Exporters doing more than US$100,000 of export business a year are exempt f rom travel tax on business trips. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. For some commodities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. One third of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts (see section on Capital, below). For ten years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I£100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists ?W i th effect from February 21, 1967, the equivalent of US$250 was granted for membership dues paid by corporate bodies and for payments in respect of patent rights. 3 With effect from February 1, 1967, the allowance was reduced to the equivalent of US$350 a traveler for each journey. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their fam i l ies; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surren- dered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, above). Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal annual installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that undertake to export ha lf their output, that provide for a significant degree of import sub- stitution, or that create desirable employment in development areas. Foreign investments made in Israel without taking advantage of the 1959 law do not benefit from these transfer privileges, but most old investments have in fact been recognized as "approved" investments. Interest and dividends on bonds or shares registered on the stock exchange which have been purchased by nonresidents with exchange converted at the official rate may be transferred abroad in foreign currency at the official rate; this applies also to amounts received through sales of such shares. Payments due to nonresidents and not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered Accounts or Blocked Accounts, subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds accruing f rom the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds f rom invisibles. New immigrants may, for ten years from the date on which they first entered, retain their foreign assets and use them freely. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are generally not permitted. Holders of TAMAM accounts may use them to purchase abroad, for themselves or their families, foreign securities quoted on an official 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL stock exchange and, subject to submission of evidence to the authorized bank maintaining the account, for legal costs in respect of restitution payments and for travel expenses abroad exceeding the basic travel exchange allocation of US$500 (see footnote 3). Foreign securities pur- chased by debiting a TAMAM account may be sold abroad for foreign currency and the proceeds again credited to a TAMAM account, or the securities may be sold to other residents against payment in Israel pounds or foreign currency. If the foreign securities purchased f rom a holder of a TAMAM account are sold to another resident for foreign currency, the proceeds are credited to a NATAD account. Holders of NATAD accounts may use them for the purchase of foreign securities or exchange the balances for Israel pounds. Changes during 1966 During the year on various dates import restrictions were further relaxed by the addition of commodities to the Free Import Orders or the Automatic Approval List and by deletion of commodities from the list of prohibited imports. November. The requirement that importers opening a letter of credit must deposit 50 per cent of the value of the goods was abolished. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira or Lit 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other cur- rencies 2 vary between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The monetary authori- ties may intervene in the forward exchange market f rom time to time; otherwise, forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions up to 180 days in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally con- vertible European currencies. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Issues of securities by non- residents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and of the Interministerial Credit Committee. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries may be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. 1 In view of changes that took place on February 15, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. They are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts, for current transactions and Italian investments abroad, and Capital Accounts, for foreign investments in Italy. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other For- eign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with pay- ments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, for payments due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see below). They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 4$ of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts and with the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for invest- ments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Nonresidents may also maintain Foreign Accounts in foreign cur- rencies. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Imports and Import Payments Imports of tobacco and sugar of Rhodesian origin are prohibited and all other imports of Rhodesian origin require an individual license. Practically all imports from other countries except Japan, Mainland China, and the Soviet countries are free of quantitative restriction; all goods, however, require either a bank certificate for submission to the customs authorities or a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported f rom these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import),3 which includes goods listed under 55 tariff headings or their parts —of these, 20 relate to agricultural products and foods tuffs. How- ever, the general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Somalia, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports f rom the United Arab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when imported f rom Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. The list includes some 130 tariff items or subitems related to agricul- tural products and foodstuffs, and about 830 tariff items or subitems related to other goods. Special lists contain those commodities on the Tabella B Import which may be imported freely from some of the countries 4 to which the Tabella B Import applies, provided that the goods both originate in and are shipped f rom the country concerned. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods (listed under 96 tariff items or their parts) that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported f rom that country. A special list contains those commodities of Japanese origin (at present comprising 100 tariff items or subitems) for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods of Japanese origin may be imported freely without an individual license, irrespective of the country f rom which they are shipped. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are 3 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. * Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, wine, olive oil, and specified fruits and vegetables. For imports not exceeding Lit 500,000 in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 500,000 to Lit 1 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 1 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided; amounts in excess of Lit 250,000 must be approved by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy hav- ing jurisdiction for the area concerned. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, how- ever, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted, although for certain transactions5 there are limits beyond which the banks may make payments only af ter examination of the supporting documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each country; for payments exceeding Lit 250,000, however, prior authorization is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries6 and (2) contracts which require a permit 5 I.e., brokerage on merchandise and remittances for medical expenses and family maintenance and for subventions. 6 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, UB.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering of ships) Yugoslavia. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering of ships (excluding charters for a single t r i p ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same p ay e e ); purchase of publication rights, information agencies, etc. ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per con t rac t ); copy- rights ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per con t rac t ); services of professional workers and company managers ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion). The second group includes transac- tions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films and advertising shorts; utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and a ircraft against risks of opera t ion ;7 and other transactions not permitted by general authorization (provided that the amounts involved exceed Lit 250,000). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 for each trip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel is Lit 300,000); banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Any person traveling abroad may take with him Lit 50,000 in Italian banknotes; to the extent that he refra ins from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian bank- notes, up to Lit 500,000. Exports and Export Proceeds A few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) applicable to all countries except Eastern Germany require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 500,000 in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 500,000 to Lit 1 million in value, a fo rm completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 1 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. Unless special approval is obtained for d ifferent terms of payment (see section on Capital, be low ), exchange receipts must be collected within one year of the arrival of the goods in the country of destination, and they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within seven days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and exter- 7 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY nally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among them- selves. Af ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts within the limits established for individual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts f rom exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and forward ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 100,000 in foreign banknotes left over f rom trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are f ree. However, loans of any kind f rom nonresidents to residents and f rom residents to nonresidents require specific authorization f rom the Min- istry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans f rom financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations; loans to rela- tives up to the third degree of relationship, provided that the amount does not exceed the limit of Lit 10 million; and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term and medium-term (up to five years) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of services) that do not exceed Lit 50 million; for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. Foreign investment in Italy is in principle gov- erned by Law No. 43 of February 7,1956 and subsequent implementing regulations. Direct investment in OECD countries, by individual or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any form and without any limit. Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment; other types of direct investment in such coun- tries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvest- ment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (af ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvest- ment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. Residents are also free to buy and sell shares in foreign mutual funds or investment trusts, provided that they are quoted on an off ic ial stock exchange abroad, with the exception of open- end funds whose holdings include securities that are not quoted on official stock exchanges abroad. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and sub- sequently that of the Interministerial Credit Committee; such issues are subject to the rules governing the issue in Italy of Italian securities. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of permanent emigrants is allowed in two steps: up to the equivalent of Lit 4 million a person upon presentation of specified documents at the time of leaving Italy (plus Lit 50,000 in Italian banknotes), and the remainder when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importation is to take place within 90 days; such pay- ments require prior examination of the underlying documents by the Italian Exchange Office if importation is to take place between 90 days and 360 days f rom the date of payment and must be in accordance with normal commercial practice; in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days af ter importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY take place between 12 months and 24 months a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days af ter exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, gen- erally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries, provided that the duration of such loans or credits does not exceed five years, that the total amount outstanding for a resident is not more than Lit 50 million, and that the rate of interest on a credit taken up by a resident f rom a nonresident does not exceed 6 per cent per annum; the authorized banks have been granted a general license to approve such transactions. The export is not permitted of securities, except those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or Capital Account. Changes during 1966 January 22. Direct investment in the OECD area was permitted in the following forms: (1) participations by jur id ical persons (other than financial institutions) in firms with a line of business different from that of the person acquiring the participation, and (2) participa- tions by physical persons. Long-term loans in the OECD area which have the character of participations by physical or jur id ical persons were liberalized, with the exception of the disbursement of the loans of financial institutions. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY The following also were freely permitted for OECD countries: (1) outward transfers in respect of legacies, gifts, endowments, lottery winnings, etc., and (2) inward and outward transfers in settlement of debts of immigrants and emigrants, provided that the debts were con- tracted before immigration or emigration. Inward and outward transfers in respect of loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship resident in OECD countries were freely permitted, up to Lit 10 million for each beneficiary. February 10. Imports of copper no longer required a certificate of origin. March 5. The import of sewing machines from countries to which Tabella A Import applied was made subject to individual license; licenses would be issued freely. March 14. It was announced that imports and exports to and f rom Eastern Germany of goods not included in Tabella B Import or Tabella Esport, respectively, would until fur ther notice not require an indi- vidual license; they could be authorized by the customs. March 24. Imports of goods of Rhodesian origin not included in Tabella A Import required an isdividual license; as a result, all imports of Rhodesian origin now were subject to individual licensing. April 28. Residents were freely permitted to purchase abroad, through the Bank of Italy or authorized banks, Italian securities expressed in lire, provided that they were quoted on a foreign stock exchange in an OECD country. Subsequently, this measure was made applicable to all countries. December 20. Bonds denominated in lire and issued in Italy before February 1, 1938 could be exported freely to OECD countries. Sub- sequently, this measure was made applicable to all countries. December 20. Government securities could be donated or endowed to nonresidents. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 28. The maximum value of imports and exports that could be effected without exchange control formalities, and hence without production of currency forms to the customs, was increased from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 per shipment. Imports and exports of goods ranging in value f rom Lit 500,000 (previously Lit 250,000) to Lit 1 million (previously Lit 500,000) 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY required only a form completed by the importer or exporter instead of a bank certificate. February 15. Transportation of the following goods on vessels or a i rc ra ft flying the Italian flag was prohibited when of Rhodesian origin: asbestos, iron ore, chromium, cast iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, leather, and hides and skins. Also forbidden was transport to Rhodesia overland, in Italian air- c ra f t, or in vessels flying the Italian flag, of refue l ing supplies of petroleum or petroleum products, even if the contracts were drawn up and the relevant permits issued before February 15. Except with special authorization, it was forbidden to effect transit, intermediary, or transportation operations in respect of goods shipped f rom or destined for Rhodesia, and to make investments in Rhodesia or to extend credit of any kind or duration to Rhodesia. February 15. All exports to Rhodesia of goods not included in the Tabella Esport required an individual license. Any activity was pro- hibited that aimed at promoting the sale or dispatch to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, military a i rc ra ft or vehicles, etc. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is offi- cially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1=0.02 French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of External Finance and Credit of the Ministry of Economic and Financial A f fa i rs. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Department of External Finance and Credit. Global annual programs for imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are coordinated by the Ministry of Economic and Financial A f fa i rs. Import licenses ( f or imports subject to quotas) are issued by the Foreign Trade Department, a f ter checking and approval of the terms of payment by the Department of External Finance and Credit (Bureau of Exchange Operations). Import certificates ( for imports not subject to quota restrictions) are approved by the Department of External Finance and Credit (Bureau of Exchange Operations). Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries that are quoted on the Paris exchange marke t; they may also be made through Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts and INR Accounts. Foreign Accounts apply to nationals of countries out- 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de FAfrique de FOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST side the French Franc Area who reside outside the Area or to nationals of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for more than two years. INR Accounts (interieurs de nonresidents) apply to nationals of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for less than two years and to nationals of countries outside the Area who have resided within the Area for less than two years. Balances in Foreign Accounts are fu l ly convertible. Balances in INR Accounts are only transferab le between INR Accounts; any remaining balance may be transferred abroad when the holder gives up his ties with the French Franc Area permanently. Imports and Import Payments A few imports f rom all sources are prohibited or restricted. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. As a rule, imports f rom countries outside the Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annually by the Department of Foreign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries, other than France, from countries with which Ivory Coast maintains bilateral trade agreements,2 and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The last- mentioned global quotas may be used for imports from EEC countries when the corresponding EEC quotas are exhausted. The quotas estab- lish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to indus- trial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. The import program also provides for minimum imports f rom France of certain products. Certain products, contained in two liberalized lists, may be imported freely from any source and from any EEC country other than France, respectively. Certain imports f rom Mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. Private persons cannot obtain import licenses, except for transac- tions not requiring foreign exchange. For certain goods admitted with- out quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. 2 Ivory Coast has bilateral trade agreements with Algeria, Israel, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Tunisia. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to countries outside that Area are subject to certain restrictions and require the approval of the Department of External Finance and Credit. Payments for invisibles related to trade transactions are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for transportation costs may be made free ly; for payments abroad for insurance, the approval of the Director of Insurance is required. The exchange allowances are as follows: for tourism, up to the equivalent of CFAF 125,000 a yea r; for business travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 for each trip; for family support, up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each beneficiary. In all cases, supplementary allowances may be given, provided that the applicant presents reasonable justification. Income accruing to nonresidents f rom profits, dividends, various kinds of royalties, etc., may be remitted abroad, subject to verification. Pay- ments in respect of many other categories of invisibles are also per- mitted subject to verification. Nonresident workers in Ivory Coast may remit abroad, monthly, 50 per cent of their salaries. Travelers to the other countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion3 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 1,000 in French francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denomi- nated in any other French Franc Area currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses, mainly to ensure repatria- tion of the proceeds. For certain export commodities subject to inter- national quotas, the export license must be accompanied by an authori- zation issued by the organization responsible for the management of the quota. 3 The West African Monetary Union comprises Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area must be surrendered in their entirety within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts in respect of services, interest, and income due from residents of other countries must be collected and must be surrendered within three months of receipt. Travelers may bring in without limit CFA or other banknotes and coins (excluding gold coins), with the exception of Guinean and Malian currencies. Imported foreign banknotes must be declared to the customs authorities and must be surrendered to an authorized bank within one month. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and other French Franc Area countries (except temporarily Guinea and Mali) are f ree of con- trol; those between Ivory Coast and all other countries are subject to authorization. Foreign investment in Ivory Coast is subject to prior approval by the Department of External Finance and Credit; approval depends on the nature and purpose of the proposed investment, a liberal policy being followed in this respect. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Changes during 1966 May 16. The import f rom all sources of cereals and natural honey was liberalized. The import f rom EEC countries other than France of goods corresponding to about 30 tar iff items was liberalized. June 15. Imports in border traff ic from neighboring countries outside the French Franc Area of goods originating f rom the border areas of these countries and not exceeding a value of CFAF 100,000 could be made under a simplified procedure. December 15. A new West A f r ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jamaican Pound or £ J 1 = US$2.80. The currency is freely convertible into sterling at parity, subject to banking commissions. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commis- sion charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward t rans fe rs; on December 31, 1966 these charges were %6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom February 22,1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jama ica administers exchange control on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Ministry is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to release foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allowances, and certain other pay- ments. Most imports are regulated by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jamaican pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Account, in any specified currency,1 or in any other foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require spe- cific authorization. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. 1The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaican pounds for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, except Rhodesia. The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authority, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale of sterling and Jamaican pound securities or other capital proceeds) are designated Blocked Accounts. Permission may be given for these funds to be trans- ferred to London, where their disposal is subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition; the income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are normally available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 Other imports, i.e., some 150 tariff items or groups of tar iff items included in a special schedule and all imports originating in Mainland China, Japan, the Soviet countries, Rhodesia, South A f r ica, or Cuba, require individual import licenses. Licenses for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essentiality. The special schedule com- prises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., certain types of footwear ( for these items vouchers are issued to importers on the basis of which licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., automobiles with a wheel base over 116 inches, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus products, cheap clothing, household deter- 2 The open general license applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA gents, sugar, and co f fee; and (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from other countries may be made by crediting an External Account or by purchasing foreign exchange from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under con- tract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain imports from all sources are subject to a 2% per cent con- sumption tax levied on the sum of customs value, customs duty, and tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For payments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of £J 250 for each journey for travel out- side the Sterling Area is made available automatically to residents by the authorized dealers, and additional amounts for travel will be approved by the Bank of Jamaica upon presentation of satisfactory documentation (e.g., tickets, hotel reservations, and estimates of daily expenditures). Moreover, authorized dealers may, subject to the pre- sentation of supporting evidence, sell foreign exchange for the following: cash gifts of up to £J 250 annually f rom each donor; refunds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees without limit, as well as trans- fers from the Ministry of External Affa irs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplo- mats; up to a limit of £J 1,000 for (1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and refund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscriptions to trade organizations; up to a limit of £J 2,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; specified pay- 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA ments, up to a limit of £J 2,500, that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured parties under l i fe or endowment insurance policies; agents' expenses and fees, up to £J 2,500, due by Jamaican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies. Requests for addi- tional amounts or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaican banknotes not exceeding £J 10 and other notes, with the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding £J 100 in value. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over £J 10 to countries outside the Sterling Area require export licenses. Certain other exports require individual licenses irrespective of destination; these include all re-exports and some exports (mostly agricultural products) that are subject to licensing to ensure adequate local supplies. Exporters to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export proceeds; exporters to other countries are required to surrender their exchange proceeds, which must be obtained in one of the specified currencies, to authorized dealers within six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in other currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jamaican banknotes up to £J 10 (i.e., £ stg. 10) a traveler, notes of other Sterling Area territories up to an aggregate value of £J 10 a traveler, and any amount of non- Sterling Area banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of specified currencies to a local authorized dealer. Capital There are no restrictions on investments in the Sterling Area by residents. Investments in non-Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securities may only be purchased in the United Kingdom with investment currency. The sale of securities by residents to nonresidents may be allowed, provided that the fu ll proceeds are received in External Account sterling 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA or in foreign currency; the latter must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Jama ica. Purchases of property for personal use outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be purchased only through the United Kingdom and only with property currency. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made freely by resi- dents. Direct investments in other countries are only permitted through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents for which "approved status" is sought require the approval of the exchange control authori- ties (which is usually granted) and must be made in the currency appropriate to the country of permanent residence of the investor or in External Account sterling. To qua l ify for "approved status," an enter- prise must have adequate capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted "approved status," repatriation of the capital (including any apprecia- tion in value) is permitted at any t ime; remittances of profits and divi- dends are permitted when the application is supported by the appro- priate set of accounts. Remittances of profits resulting from foreign investment in respect of which "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a resident) has to take place through Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling Area) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Authorized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or overdraf ts to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled Jamaican companies, up to £J 1,000 and £J 10,000, respectively. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Transfers to nonresident beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Changes during 1966 During the year, many imports were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; only the principal instances are listed below. January 5. Imports of domestic refrigerators required a specific license. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA April 14. Imports of electric irons required a specific license. July 15. The Bank of Jamaica's commission charge on outward trans- fers was raised from % to % per cent. August 29. By an amendment to the Bank of Jamaica Law, 1960, it was provided that in certain circumstances the parity of the Jamaican pound could be altered but that any new parity could not be less in terms of fine gold than that of the pound sterling. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen or ¥ 360.00 = US$1. The off ic ial limits of buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars (spo t), which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper limit) and ¥ 357.30 (lower limit), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Author- ized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transac- tions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom April 1,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance (in some cases at the same time that of the competent Minister) af ter deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capital investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, and receipts may be obtained in any of the designated receivable currencies;1 receipts in other currencies require an individual license. Settlements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may in principle be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and f rom other authorized transactions incidental thereto, with yen proceeds from sales of designated receivable foreign currencies, with 1 In addition to yen, the designated receivable currencies are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN transfers f rom other Free Yen Accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments f rom these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds f rom transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts include pro- ceeds f rom the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months f rom the date of validated acquisition, proceeds f rom sales of fixed assets which a nonresident acquired when he was a resident, and yen in excess of the amount of US$10,000 which perma- nent emigrants are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances on these accounts are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remit- tances are permitted each year up to one fifth of the ba lance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdrawals f rom these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in manag ing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized free ly, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for fore ign currency. In addition, there are Foreign Investors7 Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds f rom investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds f rom foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresi- dent Free Yen Accounts without having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but in practice 93 per cent of nongovernment imports are liberalized. There are d iffer- ent licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in fore ign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 167 i tems), the importer must first obtain f rom MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Automatic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and without restriction by MITI. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are, in effec t, f ree of quantitative restriction, since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued free ly and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items subject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported f rom any country, except, for some of these items, f rom Rhodesia. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally within a period f rom the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the goods to four months af ter customs c lea rance ). When the settlement proposal is not in accord- ance with one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; currently the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent or 5 per cent of the value of the intended imports, depending on the goods to be imported ( for imports from the Ryukyu Islands and the Bonin Islands, the deposit is %0 of 1 per cen t). The deposit is returned after 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percentage of deposit can be increased or decreased. The 1 per cent deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other co l la tera l; the 5 per cent deposit must be made in cash. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval. However, most such pay- ments are approved free ly by authorized banks without any limitation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; except for certain travel expenditures, they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism, other travel for personal reasons, and business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a person a trip is automatically made available; for additional amounts, special authorization is required. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of trans- portation to and f rom his destination. Certain contracts require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any pay- ment resulting f rom the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, indi- 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN vidual approval; under this method, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out freely foreign curren- cies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank certification"), in order that the requirements concerning pre- scription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on strategic goods to control their export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple f o o d s t u f f s ); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restric- tions by other countries (e.g., on such commodities as pottery and por- celain, sewing machines, and certain textiles). Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the standard method also require individual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months af ter shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days f rom the date of acquisition. However, trading concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and /or sterling f rom exports and invisibles for a maximum of 20 days; during this period, they may use the exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months af ter, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for non- residents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to individual licensing. Receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to facilitate payments for current 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN invisibles, specified residents (shipping companies, etc.) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts with banks in the designated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the fo rm of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 15 per cent of the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted industry, up to 10 per cent of the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry,2 and up to 5 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acquired by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for participation in manage- ment is subject to individual validation, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese economy. All these acqui- sitions, to be validated, must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months f rom the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acqui- sition: proceeds f rom the redemption af ter maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; dis- tributed profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign invest- ment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds f rom the sale of validated stock, as well as transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of validated debentures and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident 2 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other transportation, electric and gas utilities, and banks. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds f rom the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition (or from December 18, 1964 for securities acquired before that da te ). Repayments of loans extended to residents f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. Foreign investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance (in some cases at the same time that of the com- petent Minister) a f ter deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan; and when the branches or plants wish to bring in funds f rom their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with such procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of invest- ments abroad are subject to approval. Japanese emigrants may remit their assets to their new country of domicile subject only to verification by an authorized bank or the Bank of Japan. Foreign immigrants leav- ing Japan may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies; additional amounts may be granted according to the merits of each case. The remaining liquid assets in Japan of such foreigners may be credited to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Changes during 1966 January 1. The allowance for tourist travel and other travel for personal reasons was increased from the equivalent of US$500 a person for one trip a year to the equivalent of US$500 a person for each trip. The automatic allowance for business travel also was raised to the latter level. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN January 27. All imports f rom Rhodesia were made subject to indi- vidual licensing under a special approval procedure; the import f rom Rhodesia of seven commodities, including iron ore, was prohibited. February 22. A trade agreement with Spain was signed, retroactive f rom January 1, 1966. With the exception of listed commodities, Spain granted to goods of Japanese origin the liberalization and global treat- ment applicable to goods f rom any other country. Japan gave assur- ances of similar treatment in respect of Spanish exports. March 15. The Australian dollar was designated as a receivable cur- rency. March 19. The bilateral payments agreement with the Republic of Korea was terminated. April 1. Further imports were liberalized. May 1. The classification of imports for licensing purposes was revised in accordance with the revision on April 1, 1966 of the ta r i ff schedule to the customs tar iff law. May 16. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for resi- dential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices required approval by the Bank of J a p a n; previously, approval by the Ministry of Finance was required. May 16. The amount a foreigner residing in Japan could, with auto- matic approval of the Bank of Japan, take out upon repatriation to his home country was raised f rom US$5,000 to US$10,000. Subject to approval by the Bank of Japan, residents could borrow f rom their relatives abroad, provided that the funds were not used for profit- making purposes; previously, such borrowing was confined to living expenses. August 1. The approval procedure for technical assistance contracts concluded with nonresidents was simplified. August 12. The Cabinet decided to authorize emergency imports of beef and timber to counter rising prices. September 1. The contracting by residents of certain types of insur- ance other than l i fe insurance with insurance companies in Japan ( inc lud ing branches in Japan of foreign companies) was liberalized. The contracting of foreign travel l i fe insurance was liberalized to the same extent as the contracting of foreign travel accident insurance, which had already been liberalized. October 1. Further imports were liberalized. November 1. The approval procedure for technical assistance con- tracts concluded with nonresidents was fur ther simplified. December 26. Exports of motor vehicles to Rhodesia were prohibited. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar or JD 1 = US$2.80. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. The Jordan dinar is at par with the pound sterling, subject to banking commissions. Authorized banks deal in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies at rates usually based on the rates in the London market. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of %o of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank of Jordan for sales of exchange for imports and invisibles, except educational expenses and import pay- ments and payments for invisibles by government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange licenses for opening documentary import credits, for import payments against documents, for any import pay- ments up to JD 25,000, and for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. Import policy is formulated by an Import Committee, which is composed of the Director of Supplies (Import and Export Department), the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Jordan, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Finance and Customs, a representative of the Chambers of Industry, and a representative of the United Chambers of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Director of Supplies, Import and Export Depart- ment, of the Ministry of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such payments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an author- ized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area (except Yugoslavia)1 must be made in sterling to an 1 Under an agreement with the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, the proceeds of exports of Jordanian phosphates to Yugoslavia may be used only to make pay- ments to Yugoslavia for imports of Yugoslav goods and approved invisibles. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN External Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in currency appropriate to the country of residence of the recipient and/or the country of origin of the goods. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be collected, and sur- rendered where required, as follows: from residents of the Sterling Area, in resident sterling or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident Ster- ling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan; f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any con- vertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, author- ized banks may open nonresident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Central Bank of Jordan is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated non- resident accounts, transfers from External Accounts to Sterling Area Accounts, and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i tems2 from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Most other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries and imports covered by the Arab Common Market Agreement), require import licenses if their c.i.f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of National Economy, except for certain items which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all 2These include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fats; tomato puree; macaroni, spaghetti, and similar products; alcohol, arak, and carbonated bever- ages; cigarettes; saccharine, Dulcin, pectin, and "B 400"; petroleum products (except aviation f u e l ); detergents and superphosphates; cement; military uni- forms; tanned leather; wet batteries; diesel engine vehicles; secondhand vehicles for industrial use; and amusement machines. Imports of certain agricultural products are prohibited in good crop years. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm), or the competent ministry. Importers of tea and iron bars must obtain 75 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, of their annual require- ments f rom India. Imports valued at JD 50 or more require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained. A fee of 4 per cent is payable on licenses for imports. Licenses for imports originating in Arab League countries 3 are valid for 4 months and those for imports originating in other countries for 12 months. For the latter, the importer must open a letter of credit within 45 days of the date of issue of the license and must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. If the importer chooses to pay against documents, the requirement that he open a letter of credit is dispensed with, provided that the goods are shipped within 3 months of the date of issue of the license. With minor exceptions, imports must enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are sub ject to a penalty of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license, which is granted automatically. A fee of %0 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by govern- ment departments and certain approved institutions. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles except those of less than JD 25 are sub- ject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fo l low ing types of invisibles are generally permitted: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remit- tances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; expenditures for education; expenses of medical treatment; business expenses ab road; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. The policy in respect of these payments is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. However, foreign exchange is not granted for travel to Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, or the Syrian A rab Republic, though residents of Jordan traveling to them may take out up to 8 The Arab League countries are Algeria, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, and Yemen., 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN JD 100 in Jordan ian notes and coins. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 25 in Jordanian notes and coins or the equivalent in fore ign currency; in addition, tourists and other non- residents may take out fore ign currency notes and any other foreign means of payment which they had previously brought into the country. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. A fee of y±Q of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits, with the exception of those for educational remittances and for payments by government departments and certain approved institutions. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. Proceeds from exports to Arab League countries of agricultural products and locally manu fac- tured goods are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tann ing company, the cement plant, and the petroleum ref inery; also exempt are proceeds from exports to Iran of agricultural products. Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange (including sterling) receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a maximum of JD 100 in Jordanian currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency (including ster- ling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting f rom nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement and Guidance of Industry, effective May 1,1955 (Law No. 28 of 1955, as amended by Laws Nos. 33 and 34 of 1963), profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted regularly, up to 10 per cent a year, in the currency of the original invest- ment. Af ter one year, repatriation of the capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same fore ign currency in which the original investment was made. The Government may approve more liberal provisions upon application. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Changes during 1966 January 1. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange licenses for opening documentary import credits and for import payments against documents. January 1. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks the approval of payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. Exchange licenses could be granted for transfers in respect of university-level studies in the following amounts in a 12-month period: JD 300 for Arab League countries, except Lebanon; JD 700 for Lebanon and Europe; JD 1,200 for the United States; and JD 500 for any other country. January 1. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange licenses for remittances up to JD 25,000 in respect of imports. March 1. Fourteen foreign insurance companies were ordered to suspend their activities in Jordan. March 16. The list of prohibited imports was revised. Certain com- modities were added to the list of those requiring a special import license. March 16. The penalty on goods not imported through Aqaba was increased from 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. March 16. The validity of licenses for imports originating f rom countries outside the Arab League was extended from 6 to 12 months. March 16. The fee of % of 1 per cent on the issue of import licenses for goods imported without exchange was abolished. August 10. Certain commodities were excepted from the ruling that all imports must enter Jordan via Aqaba port; they included aviation gasoline, Brazilian coffee, and large items of machinery and equipment. October 22. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area could be received in any convertible currency; previously, they were required to be collected in convertible currencies designated as specified currencies. October 22. Foreign Exchange Control Law No. 95 came into effect. Broadly speaking, it restated the provisions of the 1959 law and codi- fied various foreign exchange regulations issued under that law. December 12. In accordance with a decision of the twenty-fourth Arab League Conference, the import of the products of specified U.S. companies was prohibited. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling or K Sh 7.14286 = US$1. The Kenya shilling is officially maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relationship of K Sh 1=US$0.14. The Kenya shilling circulates concurrently with the East African shilling issued by the East A f r ican Currency Board. The official buying and selling rates of the pound sterling d iffer f rom parity by %2 per cent and %6 per cent, respectively. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with authorized banks at these rates, and the public in its turn deals with the authorized banks. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currencies * other than sterling. Banks in Kenya base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in London. Tan- zania shillings, Uganda shillings, and East African Shillings may be exchanged into Kenya shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Central Bank of Kenya. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, but has delegated its administration to the Central Bank of Kenya. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopoly over the import of rice and certain textiles, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the sole importer of sugar for consumption. Certain agricultural imports and exports are effected by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East A f r ican currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tan- zania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settlements with Tanzania and Uganda, however, must be effected in East A f r ican currency.2 Payments to residents of countries in the rest of the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts f rom such countries must be obtained in Kenya shillings f rom a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Kenya residents, with transfers f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers f rom External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by residents of any country outside the Sterling Area. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzan ia and Uganda to Kenya residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda for any purpose, for trans- 2 East African currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and East African shillings. 3The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA fers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for pur- chases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Kenya or elsewhere in the Sterling Area and for purchases in Kenya of any fore ign currency or gold f rom authorized dealers. Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any fore ign currency (other than Rhode- sian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with trans- fe rs f rom Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts. External Accounts may be debited free ly for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies f rom authorized dealers. Non transferab le funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenya Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya ;4 the redemption pro- ceeds of these securities, which must have a l i fe of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferab le, and interest is free ly t rans fe rab le to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Kenya, and to Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of public po l icy; for protective reasons, certain other imports are not being licensed. All imports f rom metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, Somalia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. With minor exceptions, imports f rom 4 Such securities must be payable in East African currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but certain goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Uganda origin. Specific import licenses are required for certain goods f rom all other sources and for all goods of Japanese origin. Other goods may be imported without licenses. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; with the exception of transfers of savings from salaries by expatriate workers in Kenya, amounts above these limits as well as all other current pay- ments are approved administratively, if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories 5 by adults is K Sh 5,000 a person (K Sh 2,500 for children over 3) a year, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.6 Travelers to destinations out- side Tanzania and Uganda may take out up to K Sh 250 in domestic currency notes; travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East Afr ican shil- ling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Facilities exist whereby nationals of coun- tries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya for not more than four years may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly earnings, but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc.; this amount is to cover all their commitments outside the Scheduled Territories. Nationals of Sterling 5 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 8 Banks are not permitted, without specific approval, to sell exchange for travel to Aden, Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozam- bique, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, and Zambia. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Area countries other than Scheduled Territories who are employed on a contract basis and have been resident in Kenya for over four years may transfer uncommitted up to 20 per cent of their salaries, but not more than K Sh 1,200 a mon th; the total of their committed and uncommitted remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of their salary. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, Somalia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East A f r ican shilling notes must not exceed K Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Tanzania or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Kenya permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 100,000 per fam i ly unit if they take up residence in a country out- side the Sterling Area; if they return to their country of origin in the Sterling Area, they may additionally every 12 months thereafter apply for the release of K Sh 40,000 f rom their Blocked Accounts. All remain- ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable five years f rom the date of purchase. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain a "certifi- cate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenya securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. Changes during 1966 January 1. The authorized banks were permitted to approve trans- fers on account of cash gifts up to K Sh 200 a year for each person over 18 years of age. Previously, the banks could approve transfers up to K Sh 1,000 a year for each person, regardless of age. February 11. The import of diamonds (including industrial dia- monds) f rom all sources was made subject to individual licensing. The import f rom Tanzania and Uganda of the following goods originating f rom other countries was made subject to individual licens- ing: jewe lry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. February 25. The import f rom all sources of the following goods was exempted f rom individual licensing: macaroni and similar products, biscuits, and radios. February 25. The import f rom Tanzania and Uganda of goods origi- nating in Japan was made subject to individual licensing. March 31. The import of many textiles and certain other goods was made subject to individual licensing when imported from any country other than Tanzania or Uganda, and f rom Tanzania and Uganda when originating in any third country. The import f rom Tanzania and Uganda of secondhand clothing of any origin was made subject to individual licensing. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA April 15. The import of goods which were exempted from individual licensing on February 25 was again made subject to individual licensing when originating f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda. In addition, the import of many textiles originating f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda was made subject to individual licensing. April 28. The import of the following goods originating from coun- tries other than Tanzania and Uganda was made subject to individual licensing: cream, milk, and shirts. May 4- Kenya and seven other East A f r ican countries (Burundi, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia) signed a preliminary agreement on the establishment of an East A f r ican Economic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. June 1. The basic allowance granted to children under 12 for travel outside Tanzania and Uganda was reduced f rom K Sh 5,000 to K Sh 2,500 a person a year; the allowance was discontinued for children under 3 years of age. June 21. All trade with Somalia was prohibited. July 1. Authorized banks were no longer allowed, without specific approval, to sell exchange for travel to Aden, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, and Zambia. July 22. The import of certain types of knitted cloth f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda was made subject to individual licensing. The import f rom Tanzania and Uganda of the same types of cloth and of many foods tu f fs, when originating in other countries, was also made subject to individual licensing. August 9. It was announced that East A f r ican shilling notes would remain legal tender in Kenya for one year from the start of the exchange of those notes into Kenya currency; this exchange began on September 14. September. The suspension of imports f rom Japan was lifted. September 14- The Central Bank of Kenya started operations. September 14- The Central Bank of Kenya began to issue banknotes denominated in Kenya shillings. The new currency would gradually replace the East A f r ican shilling at par. The latter would remain legal tender in Kenya until fur ther notice. September 14. An initial par value for the Kenya shilling of K Sh 1 == US$0.14 was established with the International Monetary Fund. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA September 22. Many additional commodities required a specific license when imported f rom Tanzania or Uganda but originating in other countries. October 27. The amount of domestic currency notes that travelers could freely take out to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda or bring in f rom such countries was reduced from K Sh 500 to K Sh 250; the amount of domestic currency notes that travelers not arriving direct f rom Tanzania or Uganda could bring in was also reduced f rom K Sh 500 to K Sh 250. November 1. The administration of exchange control was transferred f rom the Ministry of Finance to the Central Bank of Kenya. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate deter- mined in an exchange certificate market, where the rate is not permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1. On December 31,1966 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were W 270.36 and W 272.00, respectively. Exchange certificates are issued by the Bank of Korea and five com- mercial banks (exchange banks) against all foreign exchange earnings except those f rom sales of won to the UN forces stationed in Korea. Exchange certificates are required for all foreign exchange expendi- tures except for payments for imports under U.S. Public Law 480, payments by commercial banks in connection with their banking trans- actions, and other payments of less than the equivalent of US$50; the certificates required for the Government's exchange payments are issued against won by the Bank of Korea. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to pre- scription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange opera- tions, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transac- tions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in pa r t; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Bank of Korea and the exchange banks, as well as their branch offices, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry or the ministries concerned. Imports of auto- matic approval items are licensed by the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in con- vertible currencies. Korea has a bilateral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clearing account has yet been established. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effec ted through escrow accounts, but the account has not been estab- lished and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA The proceeds of exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, or U.S. dollars. The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Remittances f rom such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure f rom Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances f rom balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or f rom exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom ab ro ad ). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to the Bank of Korea or an authorized bank at the prevailing exchange cer- tificate rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold foreign currency time deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign curren- cies with the Bank of Korea and with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted in accordance with semiannual import pro- grams. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating f rom communist countries and for certain imports f rom all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX imports) and those paid for with fore ign aid funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, semirestricted, prohibited, or unspecified items. Automatic approval items (2,984) consist mainly of essential consumer goods and certain raw materials and capital goods; these items are licensed automatically and account for about 87 per cent of KFX imports. Semirestricted items (142) are not subject to individual quotas but require the approval of competent ministries for other than balance of payments reasons, such as reasons of public health. Prohibited imports cover 362 commodities. Unspecified items are commodities neither included among the prohibited items nor listed in the import 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA program. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Foreign aid imports are classified as either automatic approval items or semi- restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported with foreign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$100,000 of exports is required each year. Payments for most KFX imports must be made against a letter of credit. Payments for raw materials for export production may also be made against documents or within 180 days from the acceptance of documents. With special permission f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, payments for imports other than raw materials for export production may be made against documents or within 90 days f rom the acceptance of documents. Any other method of settlement requires the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import payments are made by tendering exchange certificates to an authorized bank. In principle, exchange certificates corresponding to the fu ll import value must be surrendered at the time of opening the letter of credit. For imports to be used for the production of exports, however, importers are allowed under specified conditions to submit instead, until bills of lading are released, bank guarantees denominated in foreign curren- cies. In addition, domestic usance is available for such imports allowing payments in exchange certificates to be delayed until 135 days f rom the release of the bill of lading. When imports are to be used for the produc- tion of exports for which an export letter of credit has been obtained, a bank guarantee may be submitted for the fu ll amount of the imports, and the exchange certificates may be surrendered when the bills of lading are released. When imports for exports are supported by a related export contract, importers are required to tender exchange certificates corresponding to at least 10 per cent of the value of imports when the letter of credit is opened ("margin system"), while the balance may be met with bank guarantees until the bills of lading are released. Traders are permitted to import raw materials for exports prior to the arrival of letters of -credit or the conclusion of export contracts, and without making an advance deposit at the time of opening an import letter of credit; this exemption applies to imports corresponding to up to 25 per cent of the value of raw materials they had used for exports in the preceding year. Imports for export production of raw materials in the prohibited or unspecified categories are subject to exchange certificate requirements of 30 per cent and 20 per cent of the value, 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA respectively, to be fu lf i l led at the time of opening letters of credit; the deposit requirements, however, for 34 prohibited or unspecified items, including raw cotton and cotton textiles, are subject to the standard rules listed above. When import payments are made against documents, exchange certificates must be surrendered when the bill of lading is released. Payments against acceptance of documents are made by tendering exchange certificates within 180 days f rom the delivery of bills of lading for raw material imports for exports, and within 90 days from the delivery of bills of lading for other KFX imports. The payments procedures for imports financed by foreign aid d i f fer substantially from those financed by KFX; they also vary in accord- ance with the source of aid. Advance deposits in won are required for some of these imports, and advance deposits in exchange certificates for others. Imports of the Government and of government-operated enterprises are not subject to advance deposit requirements. Letters of credit for such imports are opened by the exchange banks against promissory notes denominated in foreign exchange; payments are made when the bill of lading is released, in exchange certificates issued by the Bank of Korea against won. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communica- tion fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. Moreover, exporters whose foreign exchange earnings exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 a year may use part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promo- tion purposes, such as maintaining overseas branches. In addition, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$3,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permis- sion. Departing foreigners may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, and they may take out any foreign exchange that they had registered on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, raw hides, precious metals, certain ores and minerals, bituminous coal, pulp, and lumber) to all other countries, are prohibited. 376 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to the Bank of Korea or other exchange banks at the buying rate posted by the Bank of Korea or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to the Bank of Korea or other exchange banks at the buying rate posted by the Bank of Korea or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authorization. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, which must be declared upon entry. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital invest- ment, loans f rom abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. Changes during 1966 January L The import program for the first half of 1966 went into effect. The number of items authorized for import was increased from 1,633 to 1,778. There were 1,648 automatic approval items (previously 1,495), 118 semirestricted items (previously 124), 12 restricted items (previously 14), and 589 prohibited items (previously 620). March 10. The requirements for free imports of raw materials for export production were eased; under certain conditions, no prior arrival of export letters of credit or prior conclusion of export contracts would be required. March 19. The bilateral payments agreement with Japan was termi- nated. April 1. The "margin system" in connection with import payments for raw material imports for export production was broadened. The opening of letters of credit for imports of prohibited and unspecified items was made subject to the surrender of exchange certificates corresponding to 30 per cent and 20 per cent of the value, respectively. April 12. Restrictions on payments for invisibles were relaxed. Pay- ments for such items as banking charges, insurance premiums, com- munication fees, and periodicals were to be licensed automatically. The 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA authority to license certain restricted items was delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Korea. May 16. The import program for the first half of 1966 was revised. The number of items authorized for import was increased f rom 1,778 to 2,240. There were 2,104 automatic approval items (previously 1,648), 125 semirestricted items (previously 118), 11 restricted items (pre- viously 12), and 583 prohibited items (previously 589). June 1. The import program for the second ha lf of 1966 went into effect. The number of items authorized for import was increased to 2,362. There were 2,236 automatic approval items, 114 semirestricted items, and 12 restricted items. Prohibited items were reduced f rom 583 to 387. July 23. The exchange allowances granted to exporters for overseas trips and for the expenses of overseas branches were increased. July 28. The law for the establishment of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea was promulgated. The Bank was to take over from the Bank of Korea the responsibility for all transactions in foreign exchange. The law entered into force on August 27, 1966. The Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea started its operations on January 30,1967. August 22. It was announced that the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in approving those imports under the import program that required the Ministry's recommendation, would give priority to goods originating in countries and territories with which Korea maintained a favorable trade balance. These were listed as Burma, Singapore, Thai- land, Viet-Nam, Okinawa, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States. December 1. The import program for the first half of 1967 was announced. The practice of restricting certain imports ("restricted items") to individual quotas was abolished with immediate effect. The number of automatic approval items was increased f rom 2,236 to 2,984, whereas prohibited items were reduced f rom 387 to 362. The number of items in the program, other than prohibited items, was increased from 2,362 to 3,126. December 14. The exchange allowances in the fo rm of "expenses quotas" previously granted for travel purposes to exporters and to suppliers of goods and services to UN forces were abolished. December 23. Traders could import raw materials for exports with- out making an advance deposit at the time of opening an import letter of credit; this exemption applied to imports corresponding to up to 25 per cent of the value of raw materials they had used for exports in the preceding year. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar or KD 1 = US$2.80. The dinar is officially defined in terms of gold and is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.9975 buying, and KD 1.0025 selling, per £ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official market are based on London market rates. There is a f ree market in which exchange other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, d i f fer f rom official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 31, 1966, the average selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the official market was KD 0.3610 per US$1, and in the free market it was within a range of KD 0.3595 to KD 0.3600 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwait. Control is exer- cised only over the provision of exchange in the official market for pay- ments to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is administered by the Kuwait Currency Board. Authority to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operating in Kuwait. Individual Letters of Recommendation, required for other payments through the off ic ial market in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Currency Board. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the off ic ial market to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Portugal or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the area to which the payment is made. Payments from 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart from payments to the Government, payments from countries outside the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received through the official market. All settlements with Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than food- s tuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses. All imports f rom Israel, including imports of Israeli manufac ture and those which contain Israeli materials or are manu- factured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of alcoholic beverages are prohibited f rom all sources. The importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own not less than 51 per cent of the stock. (Previously, firms in which partners were Kuwaitis and non-Kuwaitis could obtain nonrenewable general import licenses valid until November 26, 1966.) Sterling Area currencies are provided freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports f rom any permitted source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the f ree market. The banks operating in Kuwait are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non-sterling currency other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds for payments for imports f rom outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a fu ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation that they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwait. When pay- ment is made in a non-sterling currency other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommendation which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT the banks obtain fur ther authorizations under new Letters of Recom- mendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. For payments for goods purchased in countries outside the Sterling Area for resale without shipment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the official market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to Kuwait; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the official market need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area countries, or to residents of any country other than Por- tugal or Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the free market. Payments through the official market to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Portugal or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling cur- rency other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrangements on payments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks operating in Kuwait have been granted general authority to sell to Kuwaiti nationals non-sterling currencies other than Portuguese escu- dos or Rhodesian pounds up to the equivalent of KD 250 a person for each trip for travel outside the Sterling Area, without specific reference to the Currency Board. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three months; this allowance is applicable to all members of the fam i ly who accom- pany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Portuguese or Rhodesian currency. For all other payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Portugal or Rhodesia which are made through the official market, a separate Letter of Recommendation must be obtained f rom the Currency Board for each payment. Such authorization will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwait will be author- ized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presen- tation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommendation will be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT The Currency Board will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allowance in any currency except Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each fam i ly. This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose including the transfer of capital. This exchange is automatically available; larger amounts require special authorization by the Currency Board. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohibited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammuni- tion, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Portuguese or Rhodesian currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agree- ment is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corpo- rations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum companies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. No control is imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling Area, or to any country other than Portugual or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation f rom the Currency Board is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in which non- resident capital is involved is liquidated, permission is given auto- matically for the repatriation through the official market of the non- 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT resident capital involved, in a currency other than Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian pounds appropriate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Oil, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital, within limits approved by the Exchange Control, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Portugal or Rhodesia for invest- ment purposes, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission with- out restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Portugal and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by residents through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Portugal or Rhodesia are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a fam i ly per annum (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are subject to the approval of the Currency Board, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Changes during 1966 July 26. The Council of Ministers declared a comprehensive boycott covering all trade and all financial transactions with Portugal. November 20. Imports of commodities produced by specified U.S. companies were prohibited in accordance with a decision of the twenty- fou r th Arab League Conference. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; government requirements; 20 per cent, 40 per cent, or 60 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of tin ore and concentrates (depending on grade and o r ig in ); 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars, French f rancs, and pounds ster- ling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. A Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF) intervenes in the official f ree market to create orderly conditions and to counteract the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be cred- ited with unlimited amounts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the off ic ial rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange Office of the Ministry of Finance jointly with the Department of Customs authorizes imports under the foreign assist- ance import programs, authorizes payments for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The four commercial banks are author- ized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and f ree market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement 1 The official free market rate has tended to settle around K 500 per US$1. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS with the U.S.S.R., providing for payments to be made through a clear- ing account maintained in French f rancs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in accounts in foreign curren- cies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, and soft drinks are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accordance with the import programs financed by assistance from Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States; certain of these com- modities may not be imported f rom specified countries.2 However, petro- leum products, for which specific U.S. aid is made available, may be imported from some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the various import programs financed with foreign aid, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses; after clearance by the cus- toms authorities in respect of valuation, the exchange licenses auto- matically become import licenses. Under the U.S. import program, suppliers are paid direct from the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Government at the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, after the goods involved have been certified as conform ing to the list of commodities qualified for foreign financing. Under the U.K. import program, fore ign exchange is made available by the United Kingdom direct to the commercial banks upon the opening of letters of credit. Under the Australian import program, the Laotian Government requests the Australian Government to pur- chase and deliver to Laos specified goods. The Australian Government makes payment to the suppliers and covers all costs up to the Laotian port of entry, when the goods become the property of the Laotian Gov- ernment. 2 The countries f rom which goods may not be imported under the U.S. import program are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South A f r ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and communist countries. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import programs, with the exception of imports to meet government requirements. However, importers are f ree to obtain exchange through the official free market for any amount of imports. Under the import programs f inanced with foreign aid, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened. For customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import programs are regarded as a part of the import payment. There is a special foreign exchange budget for payments for invisibles at the official rate. The categories of pay- ments for invisibles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange are as follows: official transfers, covering official expenditures by the Government; private transfers, covering installation allowances of civil servants abroad, study abroad (initial installation, monthly allow- ances up to specified limits, transport, and other miscellaneous expen- ses), and fam i ly maintenance; economic transfers, covering mostly insurance and maintenance expenses of the two Laotian airlines; and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. All other pay- ments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted through the off ic ial f ree market. Travelers may take out any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are automatically issued. Twenty, 40, or 60 per cent of proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates, depending on grade and source, and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the off ic ial rate to the National Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks or sold in the free market. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements are applied to the following invisi- bles: official expenses (other than salaries of foreign employees) by embassies, missions, representatives, and various foreign institutions; settlements from insurance companies; and receipts of public service companies. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Incoming capital and outgoing capital are not subject to any exchange control requirements. Transactions are conducted through the official free market. Changes during 1966 February 11. The proportion of the proceeds f rom exports of tin ore and concentrates that was required to be surrendered at the official rate was reduced f rom 60 per cent to 20 per cent for a mining company that had recently resumed operations. March 16. An agreement was signed between the Governments of Laos and the United States providing for an annual foreign exchange budget for invisibles to be settled at the official rate and establishing a U.S. contribution to that budget. March 16. Payments for invisibles at the official rate were classified in four categories: official transfers, private transfers, economic trans- fers, and other transfers. Reduced allowances for such payments at the official rate were announced. April 4- The import duty on gold was raised f rom 6 to 6% per cent. April 28. The surrender requirement for proceeds f rom exports of low-grade tin concentrates (containing less than 40 per cent tin) was reduced from 60 to 40 per cent. July. Special facilities were granted for imports of agricultural machinery under the U.S. import program. August 26. The import duty on gold was raised to 7 per cent. December 21. The import duty on gold was raised to 7.5 per cent; on February 9, 1967 it was fur ther raised to 8 per cent. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On July 29,1947 a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1966 were LL 3.1625 buying, and LL 3.1675 selling, per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08=US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on fore ign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods f rom any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies7 dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, liquid gas, etc.) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of indus- trial mach inery). All other commodities may be imported freely with- out license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the f ree market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. There are also inoperative payments agree- ments with Guinea and Iraq. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, copper, lead, and tin) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items—such as livestock, wheat and wheat prod- ucts, barley, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum prod- ucts, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals—to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Re-exports to North Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Changes during 1966 January 8. By decision of the Council of Ministers, all imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. January 5. The Council of Ministers decided to discontinue granting licenses for the establishment of joint stock companies for the purpose of conducting commercial banking business in Lebanon; the decision also applied to the opening of new branches by foreign banks. Prior licensing by the Bank of Lebanon was henceforth required for the opening of branches by banks already operating in Lebanon. May 15. New payments arrangements with the United Arab Republic went into effect. While most payments between Lebanon and that country took place in convertible currencies, Lebanon was able to use LE 400,000 a year f rom the compensation paid to Lebanese nationals for the nationalization of their properties in the United Arab Republic. Of this annual amount, 50 per cent had to be used for payments for invisibles (except Suez Canal dues) and 50 per cent for imports of U.A.R. origin (except cotton, rice, and petroleum). The following could be debited to special accounts at the Central Bank of Egypt in the name of the Bank of Lebanon: all payments in respect of invisibles, except Suez Canal dues, to the debit of an account denominated in Egyptian pounds; and 20 per cent of each shipment of U.A.R. goods 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON other than cotton, rice, and petroleum, to the debit of an account denominated in U.S. dollars, subject to the remaining 80 per cent being paid in a convertible currency. June 30. All copper and copper products became subject to export licensing regulations. September 10. Law No. 59/66 regulating foreign ownership of real estate in Lebanon came into force. This law, which superseded that of May 22, 1964, did not alter the maximum area of 50,000 square meters which a foreigner could, subject to official permission, own throughout Lebanon. The limit of 10,000 square meters for Beirut also was maintained. September 15. Decree No. 327/1 introduced a premium of LL 1 a case on apples exported a f ter February 27, 1965, subject to a limit of LL 5,000 for each grower and provided that the apples were in cold storage on that date. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar or $1=US$1. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Off ic ial accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in fo rce. There is an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items. Licenses are issued f ree ly; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to sa fegua rd the monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corpora- tion. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemptions and tariff exemptions on construc- tion materials, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in manuf ac- 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA turing operations. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Changes during 1966 January 4- Exports to Rhodesia and imports of goods of Rhodesian origin were prohibited. Liberian ships were prohibited f rom transporting goods destined for Rhodesia, including oil. April 15. An Investment Incentive Code was enacted. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Pound or £L 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars only, at rates fixed daily. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966 were US$2.7902 buying and selling per £L 1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were at par. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents or branches; the banks7 rates are based on quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by a consultative Import and Export Council, under the chairmanship of the Minister of National Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Trade and Supplies of the Ministry of National Economy; imports of sugar, tobacco, cigars, and cigarettes also require the approval of the Monopoly Administration, and those of livestock and vegetable oils that of the Ministry of Agriculture. Prescription of Currency The Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Sterling Area. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Terri- tories Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Settle- ments with countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any fore ign currency. All settlements with Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Libya has a trade and payments agreement with the United A rab Republic, under which settlements are made through a centralized bilateral clearing account maintained in sterling. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the approval of the Bank of Libya, nonresidents may open accounts with any authorized bank in Libya, in either Libyan or foreign currency. The accounts in Libyan pounds of residents of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Territories Accounts, and those of resi- 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA dents of other countries, External Accounts (the only exceptions being blocked accounts or accounts to which special procedures app ly). Transfers may be made freely between Scheduled Territories Accounts, between External Accounts, and f rom External Accounts to Scheduled Territories Accounts. Funds held on Scheduled Territories Accounts may be converted into sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Funds held on External Accounts may be converted into any foreign currency, including sterling. With the approval of the exchange control authority, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya up to £L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of perma- nent residence, up to £L 1,000 in a calendar yea r; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qua l ify for remittance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons who have left Libya permanently are being released in install- ments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have already been released. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to individual licensing. One list comprises 42 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foodstuffs, certain local manufactures, and sev- eral revenue-producing commodities. Goods on the other list, which contains 8 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines, live animals, and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are subject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of fine gold. Imports of a few goods f rom all countries and all imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses f rom the Bank of Libya. These are granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Applications for remittances in respect of other invisibles are con- sidered on their merits and are granted liberally. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20; residents may, in addition, take out without license foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of £L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of £L 250 a trip or, subject to a maximum of £L 2,500 in any period of six months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for all commodities. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Exports of vegetable oils and mares are pro- hibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Trav- elers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an author- ized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of £L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan currency notes may be repa- triated through banking channels, provided that details are given to establish that the notes within the authorized amount were obtained f rom bona fide travelers from Libya. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies operating in Libya are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 30, 1958, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Real estate in Libya may be sold only to Libyans. The net sales proceeds af ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are freely transferable. Nonresident capital that is not per- 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA mitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad or to import on consignment or on deferred payment terms. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate situated outside Libya or invest abroad in securities. Residents of Libya taking up permanent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to £L 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years are approved liberally. Changes during 1966 March 1. Importers were required to submit a customs declaration of entry together with a customs valuation certificate within two months af ter the payment for imports is made. June 6. Commercial banks were instructed to require a margin deposit of at least 25 per cent when opening letters of credit for imports of certain consumer durables (e.g., passenger automobiles, refrigerators, radios, and television sets). Furthermore, they must limit advances and other credit facilities relating to such goods after importation to 50 per cent of their value. June 1. The ban on imports of red tea was lifted. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship FMG 246.853 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy francs against French francs at the fixed rate of FMG 1 — 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned, plus or minus a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office under the direction of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Exchange trans- actions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Directorate of Commerce of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and by provincial offices of that Directo- rate; licenses for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area must be approved by the Exchange Office. The Exchange Office charges a fee on all transactions authorized in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area. This fee ranges from FMG 500 for transactions up to FMG 150,000 to FMG 3,500 for those exceeding FMG 1 million. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries may be made through accounts that Malagasy banks maintain with their cor- respondents in countries outside the French Franc A rea; frequently, however, they are made through banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports f rom coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports (edible oils, batteries, used ju te bags, used empty barrels, and secondhand clothing) are subject to licensing, irrespective of origin; the import of certain other items from all sources is prohibited (certain types of beer, new j u te bags, and new barrels) or suspended until fur ther notice (certain types of p ap e r ). Licenses "without exchange" (sans cession de devises) are required for imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area if such goods originate f rom outside the Area and have not undergone transformation in a French Franc Area country in accordance with certain rules, and for all imports f rom French Somaliland. All other goods that both originate in, and are shipped f rom, the Area may be imported freely. For restricted imports an annual import program is established. This program and the amount of fore ign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by a jo int French-Malagasy Committee. The import program is based on the establishment of quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. The pro- gram contains global quotas applicable to all EEC countries other than France, and global quotas applicable to all countries outside the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing the EEC countries other than France). The quotas for EEC countries are for individual commodities, while those for all other countries are fixed for groups of commodities as defined in the customs t a r i f f. Within the program, there are ceilings on imports of dairy products and automobiles f rom all countries out- side the French Franc Area. Many of the items subject to a global quota for EEC countries are liberalized when imported f rom and originating in those countries. Imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area that do not require financial settlement require licenses not involving fore ign exchange. Issue of an import license serves as authorization to the commercial bank to make payment. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses outside the import program are granted for imports of any goods that are not restricted for protective reasons, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from an EFAC account held by the person who was granted the import license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely to countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Residents traveling abroad may obtain a foreign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of FMG 125,000 per annum; in addition, they may take out for each trip up to F 750 in French f ranc banknotes or up to FMG 75,000 in Malagasy f rancs. Residents of fore ign nationality may t rans fer to countries outside the French Franc Area a part of their salaries earned in the Malagasy Repub l ic; such transfers are limited to 50 per cent for persons having their families abroad and to 20 per cent for single persons and persons having their families in the Malagasy Republic. Payments for other invisibles are approved liberally upon production of documentary evidence. Travelers may take out FMG 75,000 in Malagasy banknotes or F 750 in French f ranc banknotes. Nonresidents may, in addition, export any banknotes of countries outside the French Franc Area that they have previously imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products (see below) require an export license. Products under quota are coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, and superior-grade r ice; these commodities require the visa of the appropriate stabilization f u nd before an export license is granted. Controlled products include lentils, rice, rice bran, peanut oil cake, sisal, and certain mining products; the re-export of wheat, flour, dairy products, lime and cement, automobiles, tractors, and public works equipment also is controlled. These goods require the visa of the competent ministry be fo re an export license is granted. Exports of other commodities to the French Franc Area do not require an export license unless they have previously been imported f rom outside that Area. With minor exceptions, export licenses or exchange surrender com- mitments are required for all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds of exports to countries outside the French Franc Area must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of their collection. Exporters paid in currencies of countries outside the Area may, however, retain 15 per cent of their proceeds in special, non- t rans fe rab le EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder to pay for representation and advertising expenses, for business trips abroad, for any imports not restricted for protective reasons, and for any type of payment permitted by a general or specific license. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect, and surrender within one month from the date of receipt of foreign exchange, amounts due f rom non- residents in respect of services and all income exceeding FMG 50,000 from foreign securities. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between the Malagasy Republic and all other countries are subject to authorization. The transfer of capital by residents to countries outside the French Franc Area is subject to individual approval. Residents require individual authorization to borrow outside the French Franc Area when the amount exceeds the equivalent of FMG 50 million, when the maturity exceeds two years, or when the interest rate exceeds by more than iy2 points the discount rate of the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Foreign investments of any kind from countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to the prior authorization of the Exchange O f f ice; this authorization implies a transfer guarantee —valid for all countries outside the French Franc Area —with respect to earnings as well as liquidation proceeds. In accordance with the Investment Code of September 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of December 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted prefer- ential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary foreign exchange allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. Excep- tional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a founding agreement (convention d'etablissement); such an agreement requires parliamentary approval. Changes during 1966 July 12. Imports f rom all sources of shoes, blankets of cotton, wool, or other fabrics, and certain other items at prices below stated minimum prices required an individual license and were restricted. July 23. The authorization to import certain wines was made con- ditional on the purchase of local wine. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC August 13. The import f rom all sources of certain paper and card- board products was prohibited. October 19. The special restrictions on imports f rom Far Eastern countries other than Japan and the Republic of China were abolished. October 22. A list was published comprising all commodities that were free of quantitative restriction when imported from, and originat- ing in, EEC countries other than France. December 3. The authorization to import cement or household soap from any source was made conditional on the purchase of a certain quantity (15 per cent for soap and 20 per cent for cement) of the same product from Senegal. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Malawi Pound or £M 1=US$2.80. The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the cur- rent London market rates. On December 31, 1966, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.803125 buying, and US$2.77375 selling, per £M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The control of trade rests with the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the Sterling Area (the Scheduled Area) and all other countries except Rhodesia (the External Account A r e a ). Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency free ly exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of any Sterling Area cur- rency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by resi- dents, and with transfers f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Malawi, or may be trans- ferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are desig- nated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with author- ized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with approved t rans fe rs f rom Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with nontrans- fe rab le capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to non- residents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferab le to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Ordinance, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Indus- try to regulate and control the distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, import, and export of any manufac tured or unmanu fac tu red commodity. For a number of items,1 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported f ree of license when originating in the Sterling Area or, if originating in certain other countries,2 may be imported under an open general license. With respect 1 Certain agricultural products, new (military type) and used clothing, whisky, brandy, gin, gold, sugar, wheaten flour, cement, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, and copyright articles. Licenses are also required for certain commodities originating in Rhodesia. 2 Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Repub- lic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI to other countries, an import license is required for all commodities except certain items, such as petroleum products, exposed cinemato- graphic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding £M 25 in value, samples, advertising materials, etc.; however, licenses are required only for a small number of commodities originating in Japan and for certain commodities originating in Czechoslovakia. Payments for imports from all countries must be made within six months after the date of import. Foreign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to £M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local nonresident Scheduled Area account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local external account, in sterling to an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £M 10 a day for an adult, with a maximum of £M 300 a calendar year, and £M 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of £M 150 a calendar year. The allowance is not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preced- ing three years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits for travel exchange may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts are permitted to remit up to two thirds of their net income to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to £M 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of £M 10 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed £M 50 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI payment has been made or will be made in foreign exchange not later than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities3 are subject to export licensing, mainly to insure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £M 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federa- tion of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted or controlled. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their invest- ments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original invest- ment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Ma law i; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. However, residents may purchase securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over who were self-employed and are leaving the country on retirement, or those qualifying for a pension in terms of their contract employment, are allowed exchange up to £M 7,500 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of retire- ment are allowed £M 3,000 on departure, together with £M 250 for each child, up to a maximum of £M 4,000 for a family. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed £M 1,500 on 3 Implements of war, petroleum products, and certain agricultural and animal products, 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure f rom Malawi, up to a maximum of £M 4,000. Applications for emi- grants' allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Changes during 1966 January 8. The lists of agricultural goods subject to import licensing or export licensing were amended. April 26. The regulations governing the import and export of domestic and foreign currency notes were extended to coins. May 4- Malawi and seven other East A f r ican countries (Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zamb ia) signed a preliminary agreement on the establishment of an East Afr ican Economic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. May 27. An initial par value for the Malawi pound of £M 1 = US$2.80 was established with the International Monetary Fund. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malayan Dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Malayan dollar also circulates in Singapore.1 The Ma layan dollar is in practice pegged to the pound sterling at M$l = 2s. 4d. The Central Bank of Malaysia has not established official buying and selling rates for foreign currencies. The Board of Commis- sioners of Currency, Ma laya and British Borneo, stands ready to buy sterling f rom, and sell sterling to, banks in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei at 2s. 4%d., and 2s. 3%d., per M$l, respectively. The com- mercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.2 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malayan dollars against ster- ling in the Kuala Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1966, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.07 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal fo rwa rd in all currencies. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia (West Malaysia, i.e., formerly the States of Malaya, and East Malaysia, i.e., formerly the States of Sabah and Sarawak) .3 Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control in West Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise, and that in Sabah and Sarawak by the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the prescrip- tion of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made 1 On August 9, 1965, Singapore ceased to be a part of Malaysia; Malaysia and Singapore will have separate currencies from June 12,1967. 2 The list of specified currencies is identical with that established under the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations. 8 Labuan and Penang are free ports. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malayan dollars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts are credited with those -capital proceeds due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be transferred abroad. Balances on Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts may either be invested in Malaysian securi- ties with a maturity beyond five years or, with permission of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange, be transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom, where they can be realized as security sterling. Permission for such transfers to Blocked Sterling Accounts is given freely. In cases of hardship, moderate amounts are released f rom Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Proceeds accruing from the liquida- tion of investments made out of Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts must be credited to a Blocked Malayan Dollar Account. Earnings accruing f rom such investments, however, are freely transferable. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not as yet been unified, although steps toward fu ll unification are being taken. Some internal tar iffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely under open general licenses. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quanti- tative restriction pending the introduction of protective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from South Afr ica, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by Rhodesia, and of certain categories of textiles, household articles, steel goods, paper prod- ucts, and bicycles from Mainland China, are prohibited. In respect of West Malaysia, imports of rice f rom any country are conditional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice f rom the government reserve stockpile for every ton imported; 4 imports of wheat flour and rice bran f rom all sources and imports of suga r5 are subject to quantita- tive restriction for protective reasons; those of wheat flour are pro- hibited in principle, and since August 1, 1966 no import licenses have been issued. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are permitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and per- sonal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in general, authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements permit family remittances to Mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a family in any one month. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Malayan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malayan notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. 4 This ratio is varied from time to time depending on the turnover of official stocks. 5 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses under tariff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports f rom any Malaysian territory. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling A rea; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescrip- tion of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank. Exports of rubber f rom West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malay- sian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South A f r ica and any territory administered by South A f r i ca are prohibited. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct f rom Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malayan notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malayan notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rhodesia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other coun- tries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Indonesia and Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely per- mitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval, if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. The repatriation of initial capital and appreciation to countries outside the Sterling Area is permitted only for investment projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities since January 1, 1950; the proceeds realized f rom investments in recognized marketable 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA securities are not remittable unless accruing to a resident of a Scandi- navian country. Funds of a capital nature owned by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area, the transfer of which is not approved by the exchange control authorities, are in the first instance credited to Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Balances in such accounts may, on application, be freely transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. However, remittances f rom Malaysia to the Scandinavian countries by residents of those countries in respect of their own assets are permitted freely on application. All other transfers of a capital nature to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are approved liberally on an indi- vidual basis by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. They include (1) the remittance of funds invested by nonresidents in companies that have gone into voluntary liquidation, provided that the liqui- dation has not been initiated by the nonresident; (2) the transfer of proceeds from the sale by nonresidents of real estate, furniture, etc., provided that the property since purchase has been maintained solely for occupation and/or use by the owner and has not represented an investment; and (3) g if ts up to an annual total of £ stg. 250, although in certain cases applications are approved to the extent of £ stg. 1,000 per annum. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authori- ties; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Changes during 1966 January 27. Imports of certain rice-milling machinery into West Malaysia from any country required special approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. February 3. Import restrictions in Malaysia on certain types of tires, tubes, and some other items were removed. February 25. Imports into West Malaysia of completely assembled motor vehicles f rom any source became sub ject to quantitative restric- tions. March 9. Imports into Malaysia f rom Mainland China of bicycles, sugar confectionery, and certain hosiery were prohibited. March 11. A limited single customs area for the whole of Malaysia (except the free port areas of Penang and Labuan) was created. All goods produced in Malaysia, with the exception of a dozen classes of products produced in Sabah and Sarawak, commercial motor vehicles, 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA and petroleum products, were allowed duty-free movement between the States of Malaya, Sabah, and Sarawak. The Ministry of Finance was empowered to levy common customs duties on goods imported into any part of Malaysia, and to extend to Penang and Labuan any orders he might, make under the relative Act. April 1. Imports of wheat flour into West Malaysia were prohibited. May 16. All rubber shipped or exported overseas from West Malay- sia was required to be registered with the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. May 16. All rubber exported from West Malaysia was charged a registration fee of M$0.50 a ton. June 22. The ban on imports of wheat flour into West Malaysia was partially l i f ted; traders were permitted to import in June and July the equivalent of 25 per cent of the import quotas for the corresponding months of 1965. August 9. An agreement between Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei authorized the Board of Commissioners of Currency to continue to issue the Malayan dollar up to June 12,1967. August 10. Imports from all sources into West Malaysia of chlorine, certain other chemicals, and some other goods became subject to quantitative restrictions; for certain of these goods, the same applied in Sabah and Sarawak. August 16. A bill was submitted to Parliament that defined the Malaysian currency in terms of gold, and not in sterling as hitherto. August 17. It was announced that Singapore and Malaysia would have separate currencies from June 12, 1967, and that Brunei would eventually have its own currency. August 18. Commonwealth preferences under the customs tar iffs of West Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak were removed f rom a wide range of imports. August 23. Import quotas for passenger cars and commercial vehicles were announced. For the period f rom August 24,1966 until February 23, 1967, the quota for motorcars (new and old) was 110 per cent of aver- age imports for 1964/65, and that for commercial vehicles was 80 per cent. August 26. Imports into Malaysia of bicycle parts and accessories f rom all sources required a specific import license. September 13. All accounts designated as Indonesian Accounts were redesignated as External Accounts and were treated on the same basis as the accounts of residents of other non-Sterling Area countries. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA October 28. Imports into Malaysia of television sets, table fans, and certain other commodities from all sources became subject to quan- titative restrictions. November 28. Malaysia and Indonesia agreed to take steps to resume trade. December 12. Barter trade between Malaysia and Indonesia was resumed. The import of goods of Indonesian origin that were shipped in vessels of less than 200 tons was no longer prohibited. The barter trade was, however, confined to Penang and three other ports. December 29. The import into West Malaysia of various types of copper wire and telephone or telegraph wire no longer required a specific license. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. Parity rates for the CFA franc, the French f ranc, and the U.S. dollar are MF 1, MF 50, and MF 246.853, respectively. Only the Bank of the Republic of Mali is authorized to carry out exchange transactions with the public. Purchases and sales of French francs and CFA francs are made by the Bank of the Republic at their respective parities. The official buying rate for the U.S. dollar is MF 245.00, and the selling rate is MF 247.00; for 19 additional cur- rencies * official buying and selling rates also are fixed. Rates for other currencies are established separately for each operation. Bilateral pay- ments arrangements with a number of countries (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, below) provide for settlements of transactions covered by these arrangements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified currencies; rates for these specified currencies are unitary. The Bank of the Republic is in charge of settlements covered by bilateral payments agreements. Settlements with other countries are generally made directly with the countries concerned. The Bank of the Republic occasionally concludes with fore ign banks fo rwa rd exchange transactions on behalf of its customers. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic has sole authority in exchange control matters; it exerts this authority through the Exchange Control Office, one of its departments. None of its exchange control powers has been delegated to any other bank or institution. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Com- merce ; those for imports of investment goods must be countersigned by the Ministry of Planning. Unless confirmed by the Bank of the Republic, import licenses do not constitute authorization for making payment for imports. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Lebanese pounds, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Yugoslav dinars. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI A stamp tax is levied on import and export licenses and on applica- tions for financial transfers. The tax is MF 200 for each MF 100,000 or fraction thereof on amounts up to MF 1 million. On amounts in excess of MF 1 million, the tax is MF 1,000 for each MF 1 million or frac t ion thereof. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Mainland China, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Mauritania, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, the U.S.S.R., the United A rab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.2 Payments with Niger are channeled through an account maintained by the Bank of the Republic at the BCEAO in Niamey. There are no special prescription of currency regulations applicable to settlements with other countries; settlements with these countries that require individual licenses must be made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Exchange control regulations provide for two categories of nonresi- dent accounts: (1) Free Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Curren- cies and (2) Nonresident Accounts in Mali Francs. The first category may be credited only with transfers f rom abroad of convertible curren- cies ; the accounts may be used for all payments in Mali and for trans- fers abroad subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, which is granted free ly. Transfers between these accounts are free. The sec- ond category may be credited with amounts due to nonresidents in Mali f rancs for rents, capital receipts, etc. Debits f rom these accounts may be made in accordance with the provisions of the exchange control regulations. All operations through these accounts require the approval of the Bank of the Republic. Certain categories of nonresident funds in Mali f rancs of a capital or other nature are credited to special foreign accounts, which are de facto blocked. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, 2 The payments arrangements with Albania and Mauritania are inoperative. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI which are issued in accordance with an annual import program that provides quotas for each import category and are valid for imports from all countries. Licenses are valid up to six months; however, if the need for a longer period is justified, they may be extended for three months. Import licenses are of two kinds —licenses for which the Bank of the Republic grants foreign exchange and licenses "without foreign exchange" for transactions to be financed by the importer with funds he holds abroad or receives under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de Flmport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of 11 items.3 An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addition, private importers may import specified goods under the EXIC procedure. Payments for imports may be made only when authorized by the Bank of the Republic, the import license being a document required for customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require individual approval which is granted on a restricted basis. Payments for expenses incidental to foreign trade are permitted when payment for the basic import transaction is author- ized, or when the export transaction is permitted. Specified current payments are licensed up to established limits (e.g., percentages of salaries drawn by foreigners). Income and profits from nonresident investments in Mali that are granted benefits under the special foreign investment law (see section on Capital, below) may be transferred in accordance with provisions of investment agreements concluded by the Government with individual nonresident investors. Foreign enterprises operating in Mali that are not granted the benefits of the special foreign investment law may transfer abroad only 25 per cent of their income or profits. Residents of Mali may purchase foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of MF 3,000 a day for official or business trips. This daily exchange allowance may be increased to the equivalent of MF 5,000 a day if the increase is justified by the high cost of living in the country to be 3 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, oil, tea, soap, matches, cigarettes, cement, and empty bags; trade in these commodities is reserved for SOMIEX. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI visited. In exceptional cases, higher exchange allowances may be granted. Nonresidents leaving Mali af ter a temporary stay may export foreign means of payment up to the amount declared upon entry into the country. They may also exchange Malian currency for foreign currency, provided that they can prove the previous sale of such foreign currency to the Bank of the Republic or to an authorized agent. The export of Malian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require individual licenses in order to assure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton f rom irrigated land, ground- nuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for state enterprises. With the exceptions mentioned below, proceeds accruing f rom exports must be surrendered. At the time the export licenses are issued, exporters are required to make a guarantee deposit equal to 10 per cent of the value of the intended exports; the deposit is returned upon sub- mission of evidence that the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. Under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitants) pro- cedure, exporters may retain 50 per cent of proceeds f rom exports of livestock and fish, or 40 per cent of proceeds accruing f rom other exports except those covered by the monopoly of state trading com- panies, for payment for their own imports included in the EXIC list and made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds accruing f rom transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. The import of Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Residents, whether of foreign or Malian nationality, may not make capital transfers on private account without authorization. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are permitted to transfer abroad (1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privileges in respect of their salary (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Funds specified under (1) and (2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to transfer abroad in ten equal annual installments funds accruing from the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special fore ign accounts with the Bank of the Republic bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is transferable. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali f rancs owned by nonresidents must be used either to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning. Proceeds f rom the amortization of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. According to Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to nonresident investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Under this law, each foreign investment is treated individually. Preferential investment treatment may permit (1) the transfer of profits during a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of proceeds accru ing from the liquidation of an investment or (2) the transfer during a period to be established in each case of agreed amounts that would include the value of investments and profits, the maximum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. In the latter instance, an enterprise becomes the property of the Government without any indemnity, af ter the established period has lapsed. Changes during 1966 January 1. The official buying rate for the U.S. dollar was changed f rom MF 243.50 to MF 244.50, and the official selling rate was changed f rom MF 245.00 to MF 246.00. October 7. The official buying rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from MF 244.50 to MF 245.00, and the official selling was changed from MF 246.00 to MF 247.00. December 15. A new West A f r ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is offi- cially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks or the public take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, without any commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the other currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs and are checked by the Exchange Office. Certificates of importation are issued and visaed by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Mauritania is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements in respect of trade with Spain are made through bilateral accounts expressed in U.S. dollars.2 Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they 1The OFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for nonliberalized imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. Most imports from EEC countries other than France, and some imports from all sources, are liberalized. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. All imports f rom Portugal and South Afr ica are prohibited. The import license or certificate of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to countries in the French Franc Area; those to other countries are usually subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. However, authorized banks may, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, sell foreign exchange for the following categories of invisibles: (1) expenses related to approved commercial transactions, such as transportation, sundry expenses, insurance; (2) various services, e.g., subscriptions, banking charges, rent, fa rm leases, support allowances paid under court deci- sions; (3) tourist travel up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip; (4) savings from salaries up to 50 per cent of earnings; and (5) any payment not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes freely the transfer of profits from foreign investments in Mauritania. Travelers to the other coun- tries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union 3 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in French francs, or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA francs or up to CFPF 75,000 in CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out 3 The West African Monetary Union consists of Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Goods that are not liberalized for export to all other countries require a license; those that are liberalized require an exchange commitment, which is subject to approval by the Exchange Office. All exports to Portugal and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be repatriated and surrendered within six months from the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities and real estate, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom the other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (see footnote 3) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Area. Capital Capital movements between Mauritania and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Mauritania and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code (Law 61-122) enacted on June 26, 1961 pro- vides for two kinds of preferential treatment for the establishment of specified companies in Mauritania: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal stability regime. Under the first regime, the proposed investment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made within a period of up to 2 years, and must provide employment for at least 20 persons. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a specified number of years from duties on the import of certain materials 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA as well as from taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, certain companies considered to be of exceptional importance to the development of the country and making a minimum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Changes during 1966 January 12. A mixed trading company, Societe Nationale dTmporta- tion et d'Exportation (SONIMEX), was established. The company could be granted a monopoly over imports, exports, and domestic wholesale and retail sales of specified commodities. The Government could give priority to SONIMEX in allocating foreign exchange and quotas for the import of the most urgently needed commodities. March 30. The import of milk, butter, and beer f rom EEC countries other than France was freed f rom quantitative restriction. July 1. A Sugar Compensation Office (Caisse de Compensation des Sucres) was established. It would be administered by the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture. The import of sugar was made subject to a customs clearance permit issued by the Chamber, and required a specified compensation payment expressed in CFA francs a ton. July 13. Law No. 66137 established that SONIMEX could be granted a monopoly over the import and export of certain essential com- modities. September 18. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, on which exporters could retain certain portions of their export proceeds received in non-French Franc Area currencies, were abolished. October 1. SONIMEX was granted a monopoly over the import from any source of sugar, rice, green tea, and certain textiles. December 15. A new West A f r ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Sene- gal, and Upper Volta. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso or Mex$12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buying, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rates on December 31, 1966 were Mex$12.490 buying, and Mex$12.491 selling, per US$1. On Novem- ber 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Yugoslavia, payments for transactions with those countries are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. For a considerable number of items, import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are p laced; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted which remain valid several years. Some items require an import license only when imported f rom coun- tries other than the members of LAFTA. Applications, except those for "open end" licenses, are screened by a committee composed of importers, private entrepreneurs, and government representatives. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an over-all annual limit. All imports by the public sector and imports of certain goods by the private sector (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radios 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO and television sets, and whisky, wines, and other liquors) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of specified commodities (mainly cotton) of an equivalent value. Imports and exports under this compensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, which levies on the importer a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the value of the import transaction, and turns the fee minus a commission over to an export promotion fund. Exports effected under this system account for approximately 30 per cent of the value of total exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Committee of Public Sector Imports; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The contracting of insur- ance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Subsidies are granted on exports of cotton and of certain manufac tured products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment, other than by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. New industrial investments in Mexico over which foreign investors would have majority control are not permitted if similar domestic industries already exist. Changes during 1966 January 11. Importers of specified commodities could obtain "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) valid for several years. February 14- Many chemicals no longer required an import license. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO April 21. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Venezuela. April 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Paraguay. April 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Colombia. May 11. A. bilateral payments agreement was signed with Hungary. May 16. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Peru. June 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Chile. June 15. A protocol to the trade agreement with Spain was signed. The protocol was designed to reduce Mexico's bilateral trade deficit. The issuance of import licenses by Mexico was made conditional on the prior issuance of import licenses by Spain. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effec t. Within its framework, Mexico's reciprocal credit agreements came into operation. September 15. Subsidies were granted on exports of cotton. October 5. Tobacco imports were suspended. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham or DH 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French f r a nc is fixed at DH 1.025 per F 1; all transactions in French f rancs take place at that rate, plus or minus a commission. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it negotiates x and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966 were DH 5.0661 buying, and DH 5.0814 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on ,the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (o f f se t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of fore ign currency mostly in the Paris exchange market but sometimes in other markets. The Bank of Morocco establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes and travelers checks expressed in French f rancs, CFA f rancs, Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. For- ward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued either by the Ministry of Com- merce or by its provincial delegations; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. "Import commitments" needed for many imports from the French Franc Area (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below) require both approval by the Ministry of 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Commerce and the visa of the Exchange Office unless they are accom- panied by a "quota certificate" or an import license. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt f rom taxa- tion and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco is part of the French Franc Area but applies exchange controls to transactions with countries of the Area.2 For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agree- ments; 3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French f rancs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, be low). Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreement accounts established for this purpose.4 Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports from those countries. They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (including banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for resi- dents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its remaining controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. 8 Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Spain, and U.S.S.R. 4 Under the agreement with Cuba, however, 35 per cent of each Moroccan pay- ment for imports made in 1966 and 25 per cent of each Moroccan payment for imports made in 1967 are settled in free French francs. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, including banknotes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2), except Spain; they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement with Spain. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscrip- tions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to long-term or short- term obligations with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan entity (short- term obligations are those that mature or become payable in five years or less ); for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; for personal expenses of the account holder and his im- mediate family during their stay in Morocco, up to DH 100 a day for each account; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent ten-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Imports and Import Payments There is a lengthy list of permitted imports, which is applicable to all countries. Imports of all other commodities are prohibited f rom all sources. For certain goods on the permitted list, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods f rom any source a "quota certifi- cate" (certificat de contingentement) is required. For all imports the import title —import license or "import commit- ment" (engagement d'importation)—must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. With certain exceptions, an advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f .o.b. value must be made by importers at the time the import transac- tion is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay one half of the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury. For most imports f rom other parts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the transaction must be domiciled and the advance deposit paid at least one month be fo re importation takes place. Import licenses for goods originating outside the French Franc Area must be domiciled within a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. "Import commitments" for goods f rom the French Franc Area must be domiciled within 15 days af ter their approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Office. The following are exempt from the advance deposit requirement: govern- ment imports; imports financed with U.S. a id; imports f rom countries in the payments agreement group; imports f rom Senegal; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is refunded when the import has taken place and payment has been made in fu l l, or, in certain circumstances, if the license or the "import commitment" is allowed to expire. Imports from other parts of the French Franc Area of petroleum products, oils and fats, cereals, and textile machinery require an import license. All private imports from the French Franc Area require an "import commitment" signed by the importer and domiciled with an authorized bank; with minor exceptions, domiciliation must take place at least one month before the actual importation. Unless they are at the same time covered by a "quota certificate" or an import license, the "import commitment" for many goods must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Off ice; import commitments for specified goods shipped from the French customs territory do not require such approval. The authorized banks may make payments freely when an approved "import commitment" is domiciled with them. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area require indi- vidual licenses. Commodities imported f rom countries in the area of convertibility are listed in an annual General Import Program and are divided into two groups: List A, for which import licenses are issued up to the limit of importers' needs, and List L, for which the issue of licenses is limited to the published quotas. Imports f rom countries in the payments agreement group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary jus t if ica t ion; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import documents. Earnings a f ter tax on approved nonresident invest- ments in Morocco are transferab le to the investor's country of resi- dence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange OflBce, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; the transfer of other dividends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Some payments are subject to limitations: A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 1,150 a month. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for tourist travel. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a correspond- ing amount in foreign exchange, other than banknotes from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. Foreign employ- ees of the Moroccan Government and of public agencies or institutions, teachers of foreign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education, and experts holding contracts within the framework of the technical cooperation agreements with France may obtain a comple- mentary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. Applications for exchange for business travel must normally 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO be directed to the Exchange Office, which considers each case on its merits; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a limit of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study in countries of the French Franc Area, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educa- tional facilities are available in Morocco; the corresponding allocation for the United States is DH 750 a year, and that for other countries DH 600 a year. For fam i ly maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned goods, wine, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trad ing agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et ^Exportation —OCE). All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the fore ign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place within one month f rom the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days af ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds f rom exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom cur- rent transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which must be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered within 15 days of re-entry. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign- held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires per- mission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to emigrants and repatriates up to DH 35,000 a family, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settle- ments with other countries. The Exchange Office may also grant a guarantee of retransfer of investments which are not examined by the Government Commission. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresidents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresidents (see Nonresident Accounts, above). All other transactions in securities involving nonresi- dent interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Changes during 1966 January 1. The trade and payments agreement concluded with Cuba on February 18,1965 entered into effect. January 1. Transfers of earnings by foreign employees and foreign nationals engaged in independent professions could again be made on a monthly basis instead of semiannually. February 14- Nonresident holders of Capital Accounts could use these to purchase 4 per cent ten-year government bonds. Subscriptions to the first tranche of those bonds amounted to DH 10 million. They were to be redeemed by yearly installments, beginning at the end of 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO the third year after the date of issue; interest and redemption proceeds could be freely transferred abroad. The bonds were freely negotiable between nonresidents. A second tranche of DH 10 million was issued on May 2,1966. March 1. Residents of foreign nationality were permitted to acquire, with their own foreign assets, foreign currency for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year; previously, the limit was DH 1,000 a year. March 2. Authority was delegated to the authorized banks to make remittances to pay for subscriptions to periodical publications issued in any country; previously, this authority extended to French Franc Area countries only. May 4- The General Import Program for 1966 was announced. June 2. A trade agreement with the United A rab Republic was signed which provided that payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies. The bilateral payments agree- ment was terminated on the same day. June 10. The complementary tourist allocation granted on May 18, 1966 was extended to all foreign employees of the Moroccan Adminis- tration and of public institutions and agencies. July 1-15. Teachers of foreign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education and experts holding contracts within the frame- work of the technical cooperation agreements with France could obtain a complementary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. July 27. Certain commodities were exempted f rom advance deposits. They were beer in barrels, parts for the assembly of radio and televi- sion receivers, and parts for the assembly of motorcycles and motor scooters. August 1. Authorized banks were empowered until January 31, 1967 to approve transfers of savings f rom salaries by persons employed in the private sector or engaged in an independent profession up to a monthly amount DH 150 higher than the monthly amount authorized in June 1966. November 10. The Office of Marketing and Export was granted the exclusive right of exporting and selling wine abroad. November 10. The export of raw cotton and cotton by-products was reserved for the Office of Marketing and Export. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the Nepalese Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate of exchange vis-a-vis the Indian rupee is NRs 101.55 = Rs 100 (buying NRs 101.25, selling NRs 101.60, per Rs 100), giving a relationship of approximately NRs 7.619 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees; where other currencies are involved, the rates are based on the above relationship. On December 31, 1966, the rate for the U.S. dollar was NRs 7.60 buying, NRs 7.68 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) and several ministries, pre- pares a foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee. Permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except payments for certain specified invisibles that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licens- ing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. All exchange transactions are made through authorized dealers in foreign exchange, i.e., the Nepal Bank and the Rashtriya Van i jya Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing pay- ments, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank —in practice mainly Indian rupees, and, to a smaller extent, sterling or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies, such as deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, Pakistan, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in India or Tibet require import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, beef, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise duty in India benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports f rom countries other than India are considered on their merits; an application must, how- ever, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitle- ments are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ); they may obtain licenses for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Many imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges rang- ing from 3 per cent to 55 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees. Payments to other countries for invisibles related to commercial transactions are usually au thor ized; payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, for- eign exchange is allowed up to the equivalent of US$1,000; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year for board and lodging. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of for- eign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the export of these cur- rencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffa loes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally permitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, petrol, cement, iron bars, and packaged foods tu f fs are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be sur- rendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL buying rate of exchange. The exporter receives from the Ministry of Finance an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a speci- fied proportion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Exporters engaged in barter trade are granted entitlements corre- sponding to 40 per cent of their export earnings; the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities. Other exporters of "general exports" receive entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of raw jute and musk, 50 per cent of those f rom exports of ju te manufactures, and 60 per cent of those f rom exports of all other goods. Industries exporting their own products and not incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements corresponding to 30 per cent of their export proceeds, while industries incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements for the following percentages of export earnings during the preceding year: 60 per cent of export earnings of NRs 2 million or less; 70 per cent of export earnings over NRs 2 million but not in excess of NRs 4 million; 80 per cent of earnings over NRs 4 million but not in excess of NRs 6 million; and 85 per cent of earnings over NRs 6 million. The cor- responding percentages for industries exporting raw jute and ju te manufactures are 55 per cent, 65 per cent, 75 per cent, and 80 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in freely from India by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citi- zens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 10 per cent of the capital invested and, in any one year, up to 25 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 10 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by foreign interests. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement with the United States. Changes during 1966 June 6. Following the devaluation of the Indian rupee, the exchange rate of the Nepalese rupee in terms of the Indian rupee was changed from NRs 160 = Rs 100 to NRs 101.55 = Rs 100. The exchange rates for all other foreign currencies were left unchanged. June 16. Duties on exports to India were lowered on a range of products. June 16. Ad valorem surcharges ranging from 3 per cent (coarse textiles) to 30 per cent (cosmetics) were imposed on particular cate- gories of imports from all sources, and a surcharge of 10 per cent was levied on imports of all other goods except specified essential goods such as salt, petroleum products, cement, certain iron products, copper, sheet aluminum, paper, medicines, fertilizers, and industrial raw materials, which remained duty free. June 23. Reductions in export duty were extended to exports of paddy and rice to Ind ia; the duty on paddy was lowered from NRs 0.10 to NRs 0.05 per kilogram, and that on rice from NRs 0.90 to NRs 0.475 per kilogram. July 10. Additional ad valorem surcharges ranging from 10 per cent to 25 per cent were imposed on imports from all sources of a wide range of goods, including motorcars (10 per cent), electrical goods (10 per cen t), and iron and steel rods and bars (15 per cent). July 10. Duties on specified exports to Tibet were reduced for some goods (goat and sheep skins) or applied for the first time (ghee, tea, dried ginger, and some other items). August 10. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Poland. September 5. Licenses of all private foreign exchange dealers (exclud- ing the two commercial banks and the leading hotels) operating in the Kathmandu valley were canceled. Subsequently, the licenses of dealers in areas outside Kathmandu that are served by the central bank or a commercial bank were gradually withdrawn. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL September 5. Residents purchasing Indian currency in amounts over Rs 500 were required to submit a written application stating the reason for the purchase. September 17. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act of 1962 was enforced in 6 additional zones of the country, bringing the total num- ber of such areas to 43. September 17. The commercial banks were instructed that advances to importers to finance imports were not to exceed 60 per cent (previ- ously 75 per cent) of the value of the goods. October 17. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act of 1962 was extended to cover the entire country. October 17. The Indian rupee ceased to be legal tender in Nepal. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder or f. 3.62 = US$1. The off ic ial limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to dea l; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits that result from combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Authorized banks are permitted to buy and sell convertible curren- cies * and to sell inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward for up to 12 months' delivery, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts. Forward exchange contracts by authorized banks for more than 12 months require individual licenses, which are granted free ly. The authorized banks may also purchase inconvertible currencies f rom banks abroad against any foreign cur- rency or guilders on a Convertible Guilder Account or a Bilateral Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ), pro- vided that the amounts bought are used for current payments. Resi- dents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward trans- actions for up to 12 months' delivery with authorized banks. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are sub- ject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i rs, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central 1 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under direc- tives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. All commercial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licens- ing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the con- vertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts f rom countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible cur- rencies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e low ); how- ever, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited with an authorized bank and are only used for current transactions. Most transactions with Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of a banking institution of the country con- cerned ; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 2 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Converti- ble Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible currencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including 2 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia or Rumania are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. These accounts are held exclusively by banking institutions established in Indonesia and the U.S.S.R., and are used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the respective country. They may be credited with transfers f rom any Con- vertible Guilder Account or f rom another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country, and with proceeds from the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. They may be debited for transfers to another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for many textiles unless they are imported from the Belgian- Luxembourg Economic Union and do not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to these, import licenses are required only for imports f rom Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of products mainly f rom the agricultural sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free f rom quantitative restriction. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, wine, olive oil, and specified fruits and vegetables. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 3,000 for trips lasting up to two weeks, and the entire allowance may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. For longer visits, exchange equivalent to f. 150 a day will be provided for further periods up to 75 days, making an additional allowance of f. 11,250 a person. A resident traveling abroad may have, in addition to the afore-mentioned amounts, the equivalent of f. 1,500 remitted to him through banking channels. Amounts in excess of these limits are 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS granted by the Netherlands Bank unless unauthorized capital outflow seems to be involved. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products are prohibited; all other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricul- tural products. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory; but any surrender that is made must be at the off ic ial rate. The collection of export pro- ceeds is obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be collected but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to fore ign currency accounts. For incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 derived from current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of fore ign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Nether- lands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins which they were entitled to take with them on their outward journey. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign- owned capital within the Netherlands f rom one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by residents are restricted for reasons of capital market policy. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted; guilder issues are individually licensed by the Netherlands 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Bank within global limits that are established annually in accordance with the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. Permission is granted freely for the transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments in industrial enter- prises established in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident bene- ficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances f rom estates devolving in the Netherlands. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted, if made in convertible currencies; inward direct investment is freely permitted. Local borrowing by nonresident- controlled companies is not normally permitted to exceed the sum of imported share capital, plowed-back profits, and foreign long-term loans. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on applica- tion, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign securities take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unrestricted. The foreign currency proceeds from securi- ties sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents are transferable in any convertible currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securi- ties, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them, except securities held in W-deposits (see footnote 2 ). Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Emigrants may avail themselves of the same facilities as travelers (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above), i.e., export up to f. 14,250 for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may then have remitted to them the total of their assets in the Netherlands. Changes during 1966 February 15. Existing individual licenses granted to registered resi- dent transit traders were replaced by a general license. Permitted trans- actions remained subject to certain requirements, including prescription of currency regulations; payments to Indonesia, most of which had been made in convertible exchange, had to be made to the credit of bilateral A accounts in guilders, while payments f rom Indonesia could be received either in convertible exchange or to the debit of bilateral A accounts in guilders. By virtue of a supplementary general license, registered resident transit traders could, in exceptional circumstances, make payments in convertible exchange to Indonesia. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS February 23. It was announced that, in general, import licenses for commodities of Rhodesian origin would no longer be issued. As far as possible, existing purchase commitments would be taken into account. March 18. A. general license permitted registered resident transit traders to make payments for goods purchased in Indonesia for transit sales by credit to A accounts in the names of Indonesian banks and denominated in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark, pro- vided that payment in this manner was agreed upon at the time of purchase. August 1. A general license authorized registered resident transit traders to make payments to nonresidents domiciled or resident in Indonesia, for goods purchased in Indonesia, in convertible currency or in guilders to the credit of a Convertible Guilder Account, provided that the Indonesian authorized bank requested payment into a "BE Account" or "DP Account" in the name of an Indonesian authorized bank. October 11. A general license permitted authorized banks to issue to nonresidents negotiable certificates of deposit denominated in a convert- ible foreign currency, and with a maturity not exceeding 12 months, and to buy from and sell to other authorized banks and nonresidents such certificates. The issuance of such paper denominated in foreign currency to residents was not permitted; as a rule, licenses would not be granted for sales to residents other than authorized banks. Banks were reminded that they could not issue to nonresidents certificates of deposit denominated in Netherlands guilders, and they were informed that, as a rule, licenses would not be granted for their sale to nonresidents. October 14. The free market for foreign exchange related to transac- tions in securities was terminated; henceforth, all authorized capital transactions took place in the official exchange market. October H. K Accounts and "reinvestment" accounts were abolished. Outstanding balances on K Accounts would be transferred to nonresi- dent Convertible Guilder Accounts, and balances on "reinvestment" accounts could be transferred to convertible currency accounts held by residents. October 14- The proceeds of securities sold by nonresidents could be transferred in convertible exchange even when accruing to a nonresi- dent domiciled or resident in one of the bilateral countries (Indonesia and theU .S .S .R .). November 7. Many of the remaining licensing requirements for imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU), or 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS from other EEC countries were abolished. Additional textiles required an individual license unless they were imported from the BLEU and did not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. December 20. Current payments not exceeding f. 500 to nonresidents domiciled or resident in Indonesia could be freely made in convertible currency or in guilders to the credit of a Convertible Guilder Account. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder or Ant. f. 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (mainly Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling) are set f rom time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for practically all current transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of certain luxury goods. These licenses must be obtained f rom the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for three months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fur ther three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for family maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the authorized banks. For payments representing inter- est on loans or net income f rom other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by industrial companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring with them checks or letters of credit in Nether- lands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign currency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriv- ing by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. New industrial companies relying primar- ily on exports may be granted nonresident status, which confers on the company concerned fu ll exemption from exchange control except in its transactions with residents of the Netherlands Antilles. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies. Life insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1966, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a person). Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) requires a license. Investments by individual residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depend- ing on the foreign exchange position (in 1966, these investments were permitted up to US$3,000 a person). In considering applications by 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES other residents for such investments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Changes during 1966 No significant changes took place. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.47130 grams of fine gold per New Zealand Pound or £NZ 1 = US$2.7809. Official rates are fixed for transactions in ster- ling (telegraphic t ran s fe r s ): £NZ 100/7/6 buying, and £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £ stg. 100. Except for the Australian dollar, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trad- ing (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966 was US$2.7857 buying, and US$2.7542 selling, per £NZ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange transactions for up to six months to cover genuine trade transactions. These forward transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for forward sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by %0 of 1 per cent a month for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zea- land under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trad- ing banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remit- tances of funds overseas. Import and export licensing is the responsi- bility of the Customs Department. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zea- land pounds; however, the proceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand currency) that is freely exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domi- ciled in any country other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. Author- ized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the pro- ceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Kingdom, in a currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for sterling in an External Account,1 or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank exercises supervision over specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into d ifferent categories to which various import procedures are applied. About one third of all imports is exempt f rom licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1966-June 30, 1967, as revised, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te, many textiles, certain equipment, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt f rom licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period; it includes all items of Cate- gory "A," which was applied during the previous licensing period but has been suspended. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for further licenses are considered indi- vidually. Category "D" includes items of a type also produced in New 1 These specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement that came into force on January 1,1966. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Zealand, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued, to the extent of 100 per cent of previous licenses for the same goods, for "D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion, with the exception that certain goods may not be imported f rom Rhodesia. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 are permitted to import under "no-remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in "D" categories. Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement.3 Under an extension of this arrange- ment, 80 per cent of such overseas funds or securities held overseas prior to January 1, 1965 by private individuals and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commercial imports of motor- cars, commercial vehicles, and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that the remaining 20 per cent of the applicant's funds that qua l ify under the scheme be repatriated through the banking system. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry, Inter- changeability, and Aggregation Groups) that enable importers to trans- fer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of jus t ify ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks7 permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by jus t i fy ing documents. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to £NZ 600 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of 3 As from February 11, 1967, applicants for "no-remittance licenses" for motor- cars were required to produce evidence that an amount equal to 15 per cent of the qualifying funds needed for the license had been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. The amount repatriated must also be from qualifying funds. From July 1, 1967, the proportion to be repatriated will increase to 30 per cent. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND £NZ 6 a day for each day spent on land) and of up to £NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (the daily allowance being £NZ 4/4/-). An additional amount of up to £NZ 400 (£NZ 280 for children) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding five years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to non- residents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new com- mitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or indi- viduals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to £NZ 50 a remitter. Travelers may take with them up to £NZ 5 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denomi- nations larger than £NZ 1. Up to £NZ 2 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods to Rhodesia are prohibited. With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export proceeds will be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). General export licenses valid until December 31,1972 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers submitting evidence of exportation may receive an additional import license to the same value as the imported raw material or components incorporated in the exported goods, subject to certain conditions being met; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufacture of goods for the home market or for export. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 such assets or their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded f rom this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a fo rm other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency' before the surrender takes place. The disposal by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as interest and dividends, is free of control except for non-sterling currencies and securities which, unless transferred to New Zealand through the banking system, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank. Dividends and interest on those overseas Sterling Area securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency (see section on Capital, below) may be retained by the owner in their overseas fo rm or disposed of freely, but are not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and up to £NZ 5 in local currency, of which £NZ 2 may be in coins. In all other cases, the importation of New Zealand currency is prohibited except with the consent of the Reserve Bank. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by corporate bodies, there is no restric- tion on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capi- tal gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, af ter the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies *The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the perform- ance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, arrangement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance if they exceed £NZ 10,000 in any 12-month per iod; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Minister of Finance if they wish to borrow in New Zealand more than £NZ 10,000 in any 12-month period; the principal exception to this requirement is for bank credit to cover normal day-to-day needs. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any o f fer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offeror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within two weeks of registration the Minis- ter of Finance must no t ify the offeror as to whether or not the offer is to be considered fu r the r. If fur ther consideration is to be given, the Minister must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Remittances on account of legacies up to £NZ 750 f rom the estate of a New Zealand resident in any 12-month period are approved by the trading banks. Remittances of legacies for larger amounts and all other outward capital remittances require the approval of the Reserve Bank. All transactions in non-Sterling Area securities, whether with nonresi- dents or between residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zealand resident owning overseas Sterling Area securities is free to sell them to residents of the overseas Sterling Area for over- seas Sterling Area currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas Sterling Area securities, surrendered, or, if the security sold is not eligible for sale for New Zealand currency, retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas Sterling Area securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas Sterling Area securities or for overseas Sterling Area currencies. Overseas Sterling Area securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16,1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; these securities may also be sold for overseas Sterling Area currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in overseas Sterling Area securities within one month. The authorities do not normally make 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of over- seas Sterling Area securities or other foreign securities. Changes during 1966 January 1. A Free Trade Area Agreement with Australia came into force. Quantitative restrictions on imports of certain products of Australian origin were removed. January 20. Payments for exports had to be received within six months f rom the date of exportation, with the exception that payment for goods consigned to Rhodesia must be received prior to the date of exportation. March 30. The Import Licensing Schedule for the 1966-67 licensing period was announced. The range of items already exempt f rom licens- ing was left virtually unchanged, but import allocations for a wide range of other items were reduced. Category "A," comprising items which in 1965-66 could be licensed up to 133^ per cent of the 1964-65 import licensing levels, was suspended; items previously in this cate- gory were transferred to the "Basic" category. The Schedule was expected to reduce imports by about £NZ 21 million, compared with actual imports under the 1965-66 Schedule. It was announced that no fur ther allocations for imports could be made in the new licensing period. June 9. New export licensing regulations were issued; they did not involve substantive changes in controls. June 16. The existing control over capital issues was extended to borrowing in New Zealand by subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies. They must obtain the consent of the Minister of Finance if they wished to borrow more than £NZ 10,000 in any 12-month period; there were some exemptions, including one for bank credit to cover normal day-to-day needs. June 17. New Zealand residents were no longer permitted to sell holdings of overseas securities or overseas currencies for New Zealand currency or other assets in New Zealand. Sales of Sterling Area securi- ties or currencies, whether to residents or nonresidents, could only be in exchange for other Sterling Area securities or currencies; sales proceeds in Sterling Area currencies could still be retained abroad at the owner's disposal. Previously, residents could freely sell their holdings of Sterling Area currencies and securities to other residents for New Zea- land currency. The existing restrictions on dealings in non-Sterling Area securities and currencies were not affec ted. Sterling Area shares would no longer be quoted in New Zealand currency on the New Zea- land stock exchanges. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND June 17. The amount of New Zealand currency that travelers could take out with them was reduced to £NZ 5, of which £NZ 2 could be in coins. Previously, travelers were permitted to take out up to £NZ 15 if proceeding direct to the United Kingdom and up to £NZ 7 if traveling to other destinations. June 17. The importation of New Zealand currency was prohibited except with the approval of the Reserve Bank; importation by travelers was limited to £NZ 5, of which £NZ 2 could be in coins, and importation by banks would normally not be allowed. Previously, the import of notes was not controlled, although approval of the remittance overseas of the value of notes imported was subject to certain conditions. June 17. The Reserve Bank was given power to exercise supervision over specified accounts in New Zealand of nonresidents; the accounts of nonresident banks (except those with branches in New Zea land ), nonresident travel agencies, and certain nonresident individuals and companies connected with international currency dealers were desig- nated as "controlled accounts." June 17. The transfer to the New Zealand register of London- domiciled New Zealand Government bonds held by New Zealand residents was made subject to certain conditions; the securities must be held for six months in London before transfer to the New Zealand register and for a fur ther six months before disposing of them in New Zealand. August 4. Commercial vehicles (including trucks and taxicabs) could be imported under the private "no-remittance" scheme. September 16. Certain woven wool piece goods were exempt f rom import licensing. October 3. A limited market was reopened for dealings between New Zealand residents in overseas Sterling Area securities in exchange for New Zealand currency. The securities which could be traded were those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued. Production of scrip dated June 16, 1966 or earlier would be accepted as evidence of a holding eligible for sale for New Zealand currency, provided that the holder was resident in New Zealand on the former date. After purchase, the scrip or other evidence of title must be lodged with an approved depository. Thereafter it could be dealt with only by selling it either for New Zea- land currency or for overseas Sterling Area currency; in the latter case, the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in overseas Sterling Area securities within one month. Interest, dividends, rights issues, and bonus issues 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND in respect of securities purchased for New Zealand currency in terms of the new arrangements could be retained by the owner in their over- seas form, but were not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency (except that the foreign currency proceeds could be sold to a New Zealand bank ). November 24. A trade agreement revising and extending the existing trade agreements with the United Kingdom was signed for the period until September 30,1972. The United Kingdom agreed to admit imports of beef, veal, lamb, mutton, and certain other commodities f ree of quantitative restriction, and it guaranteed access to its home market for a specified annual quantity of butter. New Zealand granted addi- tional tariff concessions on goods of U.K. origin. December 20. It was announced that commodities exempt f rom import license would not be brought under control again. December 23. The United Nations Sanctions (Southern Rhodesia) Regulations came into force, giving effect to the UN Security Council Resolution calling on all member states to apply certain economic sanc- tions against Rhodesia. The Regulations prohibited the importation of certain goods f rom Rhodesia and the exportation of other goods to Rhodesia. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba or C$7.00 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange is subject to a stamp tax of ^2 of 1 Per cent; in addi- tion, authorized banks charge a commission of % of 1 per cent on the selling rate. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nica- ragua, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determining the advance deposits required. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Hon- duras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in N icaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations; when payment is not being made in advance or on sight of documents, 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear are prohibited, except footwear manufactured in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight d ra f t, prepayment, or letter of credit. The Central Bank may also authorize deferred pay- ment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works comple- mentary to production. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign currency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declara- tion specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be purchased f rom a bank, with the exception noted in footnote 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or can temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general pro- 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA visions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privileges: repatria- tion of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Changes during 1966 No significant changes took place in 1966. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (For- eign Finance Division). Foreign exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Foreign Finance Divi- sion. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods are issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Industry, with the consent of the Foreign Finance Division; import certificates for liberalized goods are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Foreign Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area except Mali are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Mali are made through an account in CFA francs maintained by the Bank of the Republic of Mali with the BCEAO at Niamey. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de FAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than wheat flour, sugar, matches, and plastic goods may be made freely. Imports of many goods f rom EEC countries and former OEEC countries and imports of a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberal- ized. Other imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are permitted as follows. Nonliberalized imports f rom EEC countries other than France are permitted up to annual quotas which are being increased in accordance with the Convention of Association with the EEC. Imports of nonliberalized goods f rom other countries outside the French Franc Area are made in accordance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, Com- merce, ,and Industry; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by importers, but it contains ceilings for printed textiles, passenger cars, and petroleum products. Both the over-all amount of the program and the ceilings are established in mutual agreement with a joint French-Niger Committee. In either case, the quotas opened fix the limits up to which import licenses may be issued. Goods not sub ject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer and approved by the Foreign Finance Division. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters may be issued, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. In addition to import duties, most imports are subject to an import tax (tax forjaitaire); in most cases the tax is 25 per cent, but for certain imports it has been reduced to 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Foreign Finance Division. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru- ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for many other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Residents traveling to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER CFAF 175,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Niger must be surrendered. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Niger is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may, upon presenta- tion of appropriate documents, send to relatives abroad an amount of CFAF 37,500 a month as fam i ly assistance or gifts. Payments for study abroad may also be authorized upon presentation of appropriate docu- ments. Representation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Travelers to other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n2 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers go- ing direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maxi- mum of F 750 in French francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA, CFP, or Malagasy francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denomi- nated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of most domestic products and all imported commodities require a license. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts, which may be used by the exporters for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own businesses, for representation and adver- tising expenses, or f or business trips abroad; this proportion is fixed at 12 per cent for exports to the United States and Canada and 8 per cent for exports to other countries outside the French Franc Area (15 per 2 The West African Monetary Union consists of Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER cent and 11 per cent, respectively, if the export is effected by a pro- fessional trader). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers from other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (see footnote 2) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Niger and other French Franc Area countries (except temporarily Guinea and Mali) are free of control; capital transfers to all other countries require approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. The Investment Code of July 12,1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to new enterprises in industry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established: A, B, and C. The most liberal benefits are offered by Regime C, which is applicable to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development plan. This regime is characterized by the signing of a found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement) stipulating the mu tual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 or 20 years, provides guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a maximum of 10 years. Repatriation of profits from, and proceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments are subject to exchange regulations in accordance with the basic principles of French Franc Area exchange control. Firms covered by the Investment Code must undertake not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Changes during 1966 March 21. All imports of goods of Rhodesian origin and all exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. April 1. Cement originating in and shipped from former OEEC coun- tries other than EEC countries was made subject to import quota. August 6. The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was terminated. December 15. A new West Afr ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, .Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound or £N 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with authorized dealers and the pub l ic; such dealings are for approved transactions of not less than the equivalent of £ stg. 10,000 and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank f rom time to time and on December 31, 1966 were £100 2s. 6d. buying, and £99 10s. Od. selling, per £N 100. The rates for the U.S. dollar are deter- mined on the basis of the middle market rate for the dollar in London against sterling and the Central Bank's prevailing rate for sterling against the Nigerian pound; on December 31, 1966 the Bank's buying and selling rates for the dollar were, respectively, US$2.801:J42 and US$2.78 per £N 1. The Central Bank is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers and its customers for specific transactions on a spot basis only for the currency of any other Sterling Area territory except South A f r ica and South West Afr ica or for any specified currency.1 For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves, with authorized banks in the Sterling Area, and with customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be accept- able on a spot basis (see above) and that, when a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is involved, the transaction relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or no license is required. For- ward contracts related to all exports to countries outside the Sterling Area or to exports of hydrocarbon oils to countries in the Sterling Area may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within six months of shipment, or such longer period as may have been authorized. 1The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and for approving applications for the following: the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside N iger ia; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside N iger ia; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign securi- ties. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of the exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses are authorized by the Ministry of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application which does not f a ll within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Nigeria and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except for the limited number of transactions for which exchange control approval is requ i red ). Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or Nigerian pounds f rom an External Account, or in the currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for Nigerian pounds or sterling. However, payment for exports of rubber to any destination must be received in Nigerian pounds from an account with an authorized dealer in Nigeria. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into three categories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, main- tained for persons permanently resident in a country within the Sterling A rea; Rhodesia Accounts, maintained for residents of Rhodesia; and External Accounts, maintained for residents of all other countries. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized pay- ments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers from other Scheduled Ter- ritories Accounts and from External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of all currencies except Nigerian pounds or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. Rhodesia Accounts may be credited with payments to Rhodesia for obligations incurred prior to November 11, 1965; all other transactions through the accounts are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. All permitted payments to Rhodesia must be made by crediting Rho- desia Accounts. All debits to Rhodesia Accounts require prior approval by the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts and to Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. Most commodities may be imported under open general license. However, the import of about 20 commodi- ties is prohibited for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons, and the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied w i th; these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Individual specific import licenses are required for the following: (1) All imports f rom Albania, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Afr ica, South West Afr ica, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. (2) All imports of petroleum and petroleum products, gold, gold chloride, and other gold products, cement, tin ore and by-products of tin, cotton blankets, yarn, enamelware, meat and meat preparations, meal and flour of wheat and spelt, butter, and products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). (3) Imports of wheat and sugar from countries not participating in the International Wheat and Sugar Agreements. (4) Imports from the dollar area of coal, coke, and secondhand clothing. (5) Imports from the Netherlands of onions not grown in a specified region. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports. Payment in advance of shipment, however, requires the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given for pay- ments in excess of £N 500. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely, provided that the underlying transaction does not involve any interest outside the Sterling Area, except that payments to any destination related to profits and capital repatriation must be referred to the Ministry of Finance, and those related to participation in football pools or other betting arrangements, or those that take the form of compensation deals, require approval f rom the Central Bank.2 Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to individual approval, but this is granted freely by the authorized dealers for many categories of invisibles. Applications for payments that are not approved by the authorized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval freely for most types of payment, pro- vided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, certain applications require approval f rom the Ministry of Finance. Residents going to any country in the Sterling Area may buy unlimited amounts of foreign exchange for travel purposes. For travel outside the Sterling Area, except to Rhodesia, £N 250 a year in foreign exchange may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets and vouchers for certain services (e.g., hotel accommodations, meals en route) for anywhere in the world, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £ 50 in sterling or Nigerian banknotes. Residents are permitted to take out the equiva- lent of their basic allowance of £N 250 for travel outside the Sterling Area in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out foreign currency notes and Nigerian banknotes up to the amounts they brought into Nigeria. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country 2 Payments for football pools and betting arrangements are prohibited. in practice 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA except South Afr ica and South West Afr ica (exports to these countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by the Marketing Board (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, ground- nuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The export of certain goods (A f r ican antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is pro- hibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foods tuffs is prohibited. Export proceeds obtained in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria or in the United Kingdom within six months from the day of shipment. For all exports, including those destined for a country in the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the requirement also applies to exports of hydro- carbon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may bring in freely foreign and domestic banknotes. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission f rom the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, com- pany, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any country outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval f rom the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for bor- rowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria, or (3) by any 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA branch in Nigeria of a nonresident company (other than a bank ). How- ever, to enable entities mentioned under (2) and (3) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or over- draf ts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of the Sterling Area any security payable in Nigerian pounds without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Nigeria are not obliged to deposit their foreign securities with banks in Nigeria. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Changes during 1966 February 14. Rhodesia was deleted from the list of countries covered by Open General Import License (All Countries) No. 1. This action officially prohibited imports of Rhodesian origin unless covered by a specific import license. All trade with Rhodesia (except for commit- ments entered into before November 11, 1965) had been suspended since November 1965. March 27. Import duties on a number of essential goods were lowered, and those on certain nonessentials raised substantially. April 19. Exports of certain foods tuffs were prohibited. June 6. Imports of meal and flour of wheat and spelt required a specific import license. July 16. An agreement of association was signed with the European Economic Community. The agreement would come into force early in 1967. July. Restrictions on imports from Japan were relaxed in respect of machinery and spare parts and raw materials for local industries. November $4. Import duties on a number of commodities were sub- stantially reduced or eliminated. December 8. Imports of yarn from all countries required a specific import license. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone or NKr 7.14286 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries except Eastern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Settle- ments with Eastern Germany, with which the only bilateral payments agreement is maintained, must be made in the manner prescribed in that agreement. Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers f rom other 1 Norway accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11,1967. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale in Nor- way of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Nonresident-owned capital that may not be transferred abroad is deposited in Capital Accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance pre- miums, and traveling expenses, as well as for direct investments, upon approval, and for investments in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner only. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with a Norwegian authorized bank or be sent to the owner abroad. Capital wh ich, according to the general rules or specific permission, is trans- ferab le abroad may be credited to a Convertible Krone Account. Imports and Import Payments Most imports do not require an import license. Practically all indus- trial goods may be imported freely from the import list area 2 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, including certain temperate zone agricultural products, are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two special restricted lists—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on the latter list are licensed automatically. A global quota list contains 17 quotas for items, mainly agricultural products, for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; most of these quotas apply to all countries. Specialized and secondhand ships are licensed freely, provided that certain regulations (requiring in principle that such purchases be fully financed by foreign loans with maturities of at least five years from the date of delivery) are com- plied with.3 A small number of imports are prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. 2 The import free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Macao, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 Licenses are also required for imports of liberalized ships (i.e., dry cargo ships) built abroad, in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country other than Eastern Germany for all cur- rent invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amorti- zation, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments agreement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisi- bles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export f ree list area,4 against a declaration or a license, which is granted auto- matically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports to any country valued at not more than NKr 500 are exempt from export license. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). All exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Norwegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit. 4 The export free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresi- dents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Norwegian securities purchased by nonresidents f rom Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds f rom the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of non- resident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the International Monetary Fund. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are sub ject to approval. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securi- ties, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be sur- rendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio invest- ment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incur- ring or providing guarantee obligations abroad. Commercial banks have been directed to limit their foreign borrowing in 1967 so that their foreign debt will not increase beyond the total recorded at the end of each month in 1966. Changes during 1966 January 1. An agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway, and the private credit institutions on the banks' holdings of foreign exchange and their borrowing abroad expired. January 1. Guidelines for the banks' foreign borrowing and lending operations in 1966 became effective. These included the following: (1) Banks should endeavor to reduce their foreign exchange commitments and to consolidate those of a short-term character. (2) Provided that banks complied with the foregoing, they could, without the prior approval of the Bank of Norway, borrow foreign currency abroad and 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY lend its equivalent at home. (3) Banks' endorsement liabilities in con- nection with the financing of exports and imports and their guarantees toward foreign nationals for liabilities abroad of persons domiciled in Norway would be counted as part of the banks' foreign loans and credits. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. July 1. The global import quotas for the period July 1-December 31, 1966 became effective. December 30. The Bank of Norway issued the guidelines for borrow- ing abroad during 1967. These assumed that the banks as a whole would not increase their borrowing (including foreign currency time deposits and acceptance liabilities in connection with financing of imports and exports through bills of exchange) over the monthly average for 1966. The exchange regulations would be used to limit to NKr 600 million the direct net inflow of capital from abroad, other than foreign loans to be taken up in connection with the import of ships, to the private sector and municipalities. December 81. With minor exceptions, the industrial f ree trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association went into effect. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the Inter- national Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of specified cur- rencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. On December 31, 1966, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. 53%2d. selling, per rupee, and on New York they were PRs 4.7525 buying, and PRs 4.8050 selling, per US$1. Other effective rates arise f rom the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners or recipients of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodities or to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. On December 31, 1966, these bonus vouchers were quoted at rates around PRs 151.75 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 31 banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and imple- mentation of import and export policies. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and India or Rhodesia are suspended; there is an inoperative clearing account with the former. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees f rom the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Payments by residents of Pakistan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade trans- actions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bul- garia, Mainland China, Hungary, Indonesia, Nepal, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts main- tained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees; trade with Czechoslovakia in specified commodities is settled through a clearing account in Czecho- slovak korunas. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers f rom non- resident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding ster- ling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission f rom the exchange control for transfers f rom their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange control on transactions with India are governed by separate regulations. Other accounts of resi- dents of India, except those of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in three lists: a free list, a licensable list, and an export bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the free list and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN imports over the land route from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). The import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered industrial consumers and commercial import- ers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, limita- tions are applied to individual import entitlements for goods on this list. Permissible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for certain items on the list. Repeat letters of credit for free list imports are only permitted on production of shipping documents showing utili- zation of 75 per cent of earlier letters of credit. Import licenses for commodities on the licensable list are granted on a discretionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items on the export bonus list are issued in accordance with procedures indicated below. A number of imports are prohibited or are not being licensed. With the exception of specific country licenses issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan agree- ments with particular countries, import licenses may be used in any country of the world other than India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established commercial importers and industrial consumers and for commodities specified in the annual import program. Applications for licenses are not required from established importers, and the quantities to be imported by them are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special industrial licensing procedure operates for imports of licensable items by recognized industrial units. This procedure allows specified indus- tries (category A industries) to receive import licenses at 100 per cent of their half-yearly entitlements for their assessed production requirements of items not on the free list or restricted to importation under the Export Bonus Scheme, with the exception of certain items licensed on a specific basis; further licenses may be obtained upon presentation of bills of entry corresponding to at least 75 per cent of the value of previous licenses. Other specified industries (category B industries) receive licenses on a specific basis determined by the compe- tent authority. A final category of specified industries (category C industries) receive licenses for specified items not on the free list against the surrender of bonus vouchers and without quantitative restriction; as an exception, the ju te industry is required to meet all its requirements, including free list items, against bonus vouchers. Addi- tional licenses up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports are granted to exporting industries other than those producing cotton textiles, jute manufactures, and bidi, for specified items of their pro- duction requirements other than items on the free list. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Import licenses are also issued under the Export Bonus Scheme. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within 90 days (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Except for imports of books, journals, magazines and other periodi- cals, and imports against bonus import licenses, letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports; a 15 per cent margin deposit is required on letters of credit for imports on the free list. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufac turers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Imports of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the existing rates of customs duty. Imports of certain commodities on the free list are subject to customs surcharges ("regulatory duties") of 5, 7%, or 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. No remittances are permitted to be made to India or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Separate regulations govern payments to Burma for such purposes as fam i ly maintenance. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. No exchange is being granted until further notice for tourism or other 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical treat- ment, students' expenses, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes at any one time and, if leaving for Afghanistan, any amount of A fghan cur- rency. Individual permission is required for the export of other cur- rencies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. A f ter making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export pro- ceeds within four months; export proceeds f rom ju te manufactures, however, must be repatriated within six months. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than the following ma jor items: raw ju t e; raw cotton; hides and skins, including lambskins but excluding fu rs and reptile skins; wool, including wool waste; rice; and tea. After surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other pri- mary products, by-products, semimanufactured goods, including unfin- ished cotton piece goods, and manufac tured goods involving a simple manufac tur ing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 30 or temporarily 40. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 45 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferab le and entitle 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are generally not otherwise licensed for importation.1 Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate within one month. Pakistanis who are either employed or carrying on business abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to their relatives in Pakistan; earners of foreign exchange from certain services (a i rc ra ft repairs, salvage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equiva- lent to 30 per cent of their exchange earnings. All Pakistani nationals residing abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the foreign exchange they remit for the purchase of Government of Pakistan 5 per cent Defense Bonds, 1970. The vouchers recorded in all cases are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their earnings from foreign tourists for board and lodg- ing; these licenses are valid for a number of items required by the hotel industry. The facility of the Bonus Scheme applies also to Indus Basin con- tracts; all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earned f rom machinery items and 20 per cent f rom all other supplies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas ( f rom India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to declaration to the cus- toms, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Govern- 1Half the vouchers earned by the ju te manufacturing industry may be used only for imports of machinery and spare parts for the jute industry and other industries. 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN ment follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established af ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original invest- ment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities will be subject to the exchange control regulations in force at the time, and they will not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1,1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the capital, in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their invest- ments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are, in general, not per- mitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. Foreign nationals are permitted to purchase Pakistan securities upon approval by the State Bank; the subsequent sale of such securities to foreign nationals also requires approval by the State Bank, but the sale to Pakistanis does not. Exports of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Changes during 1966 January 1. Forward purchase of foreign exchange up to six months was permitted for cover of firm contracts for exports and for consign- ment shipments, provided that the contract approximated the amount declared on the shipping bill and export f o rm; special regulations applied, however, to exports of ju te goods. January 11. In accordance with a trade agreement with Bulgaria, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports were made through a special account in inconvertible Pakistan rupees opened by the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank with the National Bank of Pakistan. January 22. Further modifications of import policy were announced for the period January-June 1966. While the free list still contained 31 items, the open general license list was increased from 6 to 11 items and the licensable list was extended f rom 15 to 104 items. Forty-three new items could only be imported with export bonus vouchers. On the industrial side, category A now comprised 75 industries, including Pharmaceuticals, paint, and sports goods; these continued to enjoy the facility of repeat licensing against proof of utilization of earlier license. Category B now contained 73 industries for which licenses would be issued up to specific over-all limits. A new list comprised 148 industries that were required to meet their import needs, other than items on the free list, against bonus vouchers. All industries could supplement their requirements of certain raw material items under the export bonus procedure and could import those free list goods for which they were eligible. Iron and steel and nonferrous metal imports on the f ree list were made subject to conditions regarding price. February 7. In accordance with a trade agreement with Poland, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports were made through a special account in inconvertible Pakistan rupees opened by Bank Handlowy w Warszawie with the National Bank of Pakistan. February 9. Except for the import of books, journals, magazines, and other periodicals, and imports against bonus import licenses, all imports were required to be made against irrevocable letter of credit. February 18. The procedures for the import program for January- June 1966 were modified as follows: (1) The opening of a letter of credit for items on the f ree list was allowed on the production of a passbook. (2) Repeat letters of credit for books, journals, and maga- zines were permissible against proof of utilization of 90 per cent of earlier letters of credit. (3) The sources of procurement for nine items or groups of items were specified. (4) Letters of credit for iron and steel and nonferrous metals other than aluminum ingots, copper rods, 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN and mercury were made subject to specific authorization by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. (5) With minor exceptions, the establishment of letters of credit by public and semipublic sector agencies was made subject to clearance by the State Bank. (6) The import of certain medical items was made subject to prior approval by the Director General of Health or the Director of Health Services. (7) No letter of credit could be established for imports f rom India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. February 24. In accordance with a trade agreement with Hungary that provided for balanced trade, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports were made through special accounts in inconvert- ible Pakistan rupees maintained by the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank and the National Bank of Pakistan. March 2. In accordance with a trade agreement with Czechoslovakia, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports were made through an account in Czechoslovak korunas opened by the State Bank of Pakistan with the Commercial Bank of Czechoslovakia. March 24- Cotton textile looms were placed on the import free list for importation from Bulgaria, Poland, and the U.S.S.R., under the terms of the trade agreements with those countries, provided that (1) imports were for purposes of replacement, modernization, or "balancing"; (2) payments were made in inconvertible Pakistan rupees and within the limit for imports of looms set in the agreement concerned; and (3) bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the c. & f. value of the loom were surrendered. March 29. Sources of procurement for free list imports of tools and workshop equipment and dyes and chemicals were extended to Czechoslovakia and Hungary, provided that payment took place in inconvertible Pakistan rupees under the terms of the trade agreement with the country concerned. April 13. The limit for letters of credit for imports of specified cate- gories of tools and workshop equipment was raised f rom PRs 10,000 to PRs 25,000. April 13. Initial letters of credit for free list items originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. no longer required the production of bills of entry for 90 per cent of previous letters of credit. April 19. Authorized dealers were not allowed to open letters of credit for imports of gum and resin f rom Iran financed from Pakistan's own resources. April 19. The import from the U.S.S.R. of pig iron under the free list procedure was limited to industry. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN April 20. Dyes and chemicals originating in Western Europe (except the United Kingdom) could be imported through the intermediary of Bulgarian exporters, against payment in inconvertible Pakistan rupees under the terms of the trade agreement with Bulgaria. April 21. The import of soda ash was permitted only under loan agreements or bilateral trade agreements. May 14. Imports of iron and steel items were made subject to price check requirements established by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports; exempt were imports effected against export performance, against bonus import licenses, by public and semipublic agencies and specified charitable institutions, or with special authorization from the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. May 16. Authorized dealers could no longer open letters of credit for f ree list imports against Pakistan's own resources except for iron and steel and nonferrous metal items authorized by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. June 11. The establishment of letters of credit for imports under the free list against Pakistan's own resources was permitted upon the authorization of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. June 11. The budget statement provided for the following: (1) A comprehensive revision and rationalization of the ad valorem import tar iff structure, narrowing its range from 5-300 per cent to 10-250 per cent and accentuating the differentials between raw materials, semi- finished goods, and finished goods. (2) Import and export duties on petroleum products were raised and an import duty was levied on crude oil. (3) The defense surcharge of 25 per cent on import duties (exclud- ing machinery) was continued. (4) Tax rebates for export merchants were increased f rom 10 per cent to 15 per cent; in calculating the rebate, the value of export bonus vouchers earned would not be deducted f rom the sale proceeds of exports. June 13. The import of pig iron from the U.S.S.R. under the free list was no longer restricted to industry. June 17. Bauxite, tin ingots, copra, and palm oil were made eligible for import from Indonesia under the free list, provided that settlement took place in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. July 9. The requirement that 30 per cent in bonus vouchers be surrendered for imports of looms under the trade agreements with Bulgaria, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. was eased for looms with under 25,000 spindles. July 15. A more liberal import policy was introduced for 1966-67. The number of items on the free list was raised from 31 to 66. The open 486 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN general license list was abolished and the licensable list decreased f rom 104 to 96 items. The number of industries now allowed to apply for import licenses on a regular basis was raised f rom 148 to 258, and the restriction of import licenses to licenses against export bonus vouchers was applied to only 44 less important industries, against 149 previously. July 30. In accordance with a trade agreement with Mainland China, settlements for specified imports and exports were made through special accounts in inconvertible Pakistan rupees maintained by the Bank of China and the National Bank of Pakistan. August 11. In accordance with a trade agreement with Ruman ia, settlements for specified imports and exports were made through special accounts in inconvertible Pakistan rupees maintained by the National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Rumania and the National Bank of Pakistan. August 29. The authority to authorized dealers in foreign exchange to remit up to PRs 500 a year to countries other than India for individual subscriptions (other than by regular booksellers) to maga- zines, periodicals, etc., was reduced to PRs 250. September 5. The establishment of letters of credit for imports of iron and steel items under the free list against Pakistan's cash re- sources was made subject to clearance by the State Bank. September 8. Dyes and chemicals of U.K. origin were made eligible for import under the free list f rom Bulgaria under the trade agreement with the latter country. September 19. Imports f rom the United States of raw ma ter ia ls for life-saving drugs and medicines under the f ree list could also be paid for from Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources; previously, such imports were limited to those covered by foreign aid. November 8. Restrictions on the source and conditions of procure- ment of chemicals, including soda ash and dyes, for import under the f ree list were relaxed for industrial consumers; imports were permitted on a world-wide basis against Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources, except that imports f rom the United Kingdom were required to be made under loan facilities. November 12. In accordance with a trade agreement with Yugo- slavia, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports were made through special accounts in inconvertible Pakistan rupees main- tained by the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade and the National Bank of Pakistan. November 15. Industries could import, against payment f rom Paki- stan's own foreign exchange resources, nonferrous metals and ferro- 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN alloys, except copper rods, mercury, and aluminum (but including aluminum slugs and strips). December S. The import of raw rubber against payment from Paki- stan's own foreign exchange resources was allowed. December 26. The prior approval of the State Bank was required for the opening of import letters of credit for goods on the free list that were to be paid for from Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources. 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa or B 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commer- cial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agricul- ture, Commerce, and Industry. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. This Office is responsible for the imple- mentation of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports; the Commission for the Study of Import Quotas, which is part of the Price Regulation Office, determines the import quotas for commodities that are produced or about to be produced in Panama. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on the fo l low ing: gold, silver, and platinum; manganese; other minerals; bananas; coconuts; scrap metals; pearls; animal wax; nispero gum; ipecac root; and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Payments for and Proceeds from These are not restricted. Invisibles Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1966 March 8. Decree No. 57 provided that import quotas for commodi- ties that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama would be established by a Commission for the Study of Import Quotas, to be set up in the Price Regulation Office. The Commission would be com- posed of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry, the Ministry of Finance, and the Economic Develop- ment Institute, as well as representatives of trade and industry. Any local producer of essential goods could at any time request that quota restrictions be imposed on the import of competing products; such requests would be decided by the Office of Price Regulation, acting on the advice of the Commission for the Study of Import Quotas. October 28. The Price Regulation Office issued Resolution No. 188 by virtue of which fur ther cotton and cotton-mixture textiles became subject to import quota. November 25. Panama and the members of the Organization of Central American States (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon- duras, and Nicaragua) signed a protocol by virtue of which Panama would become a member of specified subsidiary agencies of the Organi- zation. The protocol was submitted to the National Assembly on December 7,1966. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Paraguayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transac- tions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place at free market rates, which since October 1960 have been pegged at 0 123.60 buying, and <fi 126.00 selling, per U$l. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0- 125.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through authorized commercial banks, except those related to government payments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. There are no forward exchange facilities. All purchases of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of y2 of 1 per cent. All remittances of foreign exchange are also subject to a tax of Y2 of 1 per cent. The authorized banks are required to sell 25 per cent of their gross exchange receipts to the Central Bank and a fu r ther 15 per cent to the oil companies. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay administers the exchange controls and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by author- ized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Paraguay and Chile, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; payments between Argentina and Paraguay must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the two central banks, also within the framework of the LAFTA clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are temporarily prohibited.1 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of 1 These include certain agricultural products, depending on the season, and certain petroleum products. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY many commodities are sub ject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made af ter the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodi- ties imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for government imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organizations, certain agricul- tural machinery from any source, imports from neighboring coun- tries, Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, and imports from LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 32 per cent applies to most general imports. Petroleum products are subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent when imported f rom LAFTA countries and neighboring countries (including Uruguay), and to a surcharge of 15 per cent when imported from other countries. Wheat imports f rom countries other than LAFTA countries and neighboring countries (including Uruguay) are subject to a surcharge of 19 per cent; wheat imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay are free of surcharge. The surcharge is 8 per cent on some semiprocessed products (mainly Pharmaceuticals) imported from neighboring countries, including Uruguay. There is an additional sur- charge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of radios, record players, and their parts and accessories. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions f rom surcharge: books and periodicals; imports for the Government, for religious organizations, for cooperatives, for diplomats, and for certain international organizations; wheat imports under U.S. Public Law 480; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and imple- ments imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; and imports f rom LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Imports of investment goods, of raw materials for export industries, and of certain other raw materials receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval f rom the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and vehicles other than private auto- mobiles. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for specified current invisibles, provided that appropriate documentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each trip: the equivalent of US$150 for neighboring countries, including Uruguay; of US$300 for other Latin American countries; and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank; this is normally given if the Bank is satisfied that no illicit capital movements are involved. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days af ter com- pletion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to a commercial bank. For certain exports minimum surrender prices (aforos) are established; these prices are of an indicative character, and the full export proceeds must be surrendered. Producers of co f fee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers7 own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies of 7% per cent, 5 per cent, or 2% per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements in respect of the exchange pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may free ly grant exchange for contractual capital transfers, subject to production of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank and in certain cases are restricted. Decree-Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Changes during 1966 January 6. The meat packing industry's export processing quota for domestic live cattle for 1966 was fixed at 250,000 head, compared with an initial quota of 195,000 head in 1965 (which was subsequently expanded by 30,000 head ). February 4- Resolution No. 103 of the Ministry of Finance lowered the export taxes on vegetable oil products and by-products (other than tung oil and soybean oil) from 7.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent, and reduced from US$150 to US$120 a ton the price for tax purposes (aforo) for coconut pulp oil. April 23. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the Central Reserve Bank of Peru. April 26. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the Central Bank of Chile. April 27. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the Bank of Mexico. May 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the Central Bank of Argentina. The agreement came into operation on June 1,1966. May 30. A tax of 0.5 per cent on the value of import and export contracts was substituted for the stamp tax on documents. June 1. An additional surcharge of 5 per cent was levied on imports of radios, record players, and their parts and accessories. June 13. The Central Bank required the authorized banks to provide daily information on their exchange sales and to submit copies of the supporting documents. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effect. Within its framework, Paraguay's reciprocal credit agreements came into operation. July 6. Minimum prices (aforos) were established for the import of various lower-grade textile fab r ics; as a result, import duties on these were increased. July 6. The price for tax purposes (aforo) for exports of tung oil was reduced f rom US$340 to US$310 a ton, and the export tax f rom 7.5 per cent to 5 per cent. July 7. Exports of sugar were freed f rom export taxes; the price for tax purposes (aforo) was established at the international price on the date of exportation. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY August 19. Law No. 1171 introduced a number of modifications in the income tax applicable to exporters, transportation companies, and insurance companies. September 23. The import surcharge on most general imports was raised from 30 per cent to 32 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The surcharge of 6 per cent was increased to 8 per cent. October 3. Following the opening of a petroleum refinery in Para- guay, Decree No. 21757 prohibited the import of common gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, fuel oil, kerosene, and bottled gas. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU1 Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was estab- lished by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange trans- actions are settled through the exchange market, in which the rate on December 31, 1966 was S/ 26.82 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports other than live cattle and about a dozen other items are permitted freely, except imports f rom Cuba, Mainland China, and Eastern European countries other than Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricul- tural and medical products, books, and coins. Exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely in the exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of fishmeal and coffee, exports are not subject to license. No control is exercised over export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from These are not restricted. Invisibles Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New investments must be 1In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU registered with the Directorate-General of Commerce, Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Law No. 13270 of November 30, 1959, the Industrial Promotion Law, provides that the Executive may raise import duties on foreign products to encourage and develop existing or new industries. Changes during 1966 January 25. Supreme Decree No. 3 reserved for Peruvian vessels 20 per cent of all import and export cargo on the routes of established shipping lines; freight rates must not exceed those applied under the corresponding conference ta r i f f. April 23. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Paraguay. May 5. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Colombia. May 8. The tax on copper exports payable as an advance on annual corporate profit tax was based on London Metal Exchange quotations instead of on New York quotations. May 13. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Chile. May 16. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Mexico. June 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Argentina. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing system came into effect. Within its framework, Peru's reciprocal credit agreements came into operation. July 14. All agents and representatives of foreign firms or organiza- tions, including mutual funds, involved in selling securities in Peru were required to register with the Superintendent of Taxes and main- tain detailed records. July 15. A resolution of the Ministry of Agriculture revised the quota system for exports of coffee. August 10. An import surcharge of 1% per cent ad valorem was levied on most imports. September 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Peru and Ecuador. October 28. All commodities listed in Peru's GATT schedule were exempted f rom the import surcharge of 1% per cent ad valorem. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU October 28. Decree No. 69 provided that the National Food Supply Corporation must establish each year the quantity of live cattle that may be imported. November 4- All drafts, notes, and similar instruments issued in connection with credit operations with foreign entities by the Govern- ment or, with a government guarantee, by official agencies, and relat- ing to imports of capital goods were declared not negotiable. December 20. Resolution No. 1265-H of the Ministry of Finance established that henceforward the stamp tax would not be levied on imported goods on which the additional value tax of 10 per cent was paid on importation. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1967: January 1. Exports of fishmeal required a specific license. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso or P 3.90 = US$1. The official limits established by the Central Bank of the Philippines for its dealings with banks are P 3.8805 buying, and P 3.9195 selling, per US$1. The authorized agent banks in transactions with their customers are permitted to quote a buying rate of at least P 3.8610 and at most P 3.9195 per US$1, and a selling rate of at least P 3.8805 and at most P 3.9390 per US$1. Exchange rates for other authorized currencies purchased by the Central Bank are based on the spot buying or selling rates in New York for the currency con- cerned at the close of the day prior to the actual purchase in Manila, and the Central Bank's current spot buying or selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces, but the Central Bank sells forward exchange to authorized agent banks to cover liabili- ties of their clients resulting from import and export transactions at the interbank spot rate with fixed premiums. Certain firms which before January 19, 1962 with the prior approval of the Monetary Board contracted loans or incurred deferred payments obligations for imports of capital equipment at a rate not exceeding P 3.20 per US$1 are allowed to liquidate these obligations by buying foreign exchange from authorized agent banks at the official rate of P 3.90 per US$1, with the Central Bank refund ing the d ifference. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Indonesia and the Philippines are channeled through clearing accounts in U.S. dollars maintained by the two central banks. There are no other prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports f rom any source of certain agricultural commodities are prohibited 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES for protective reasons. There are no other restrictions on imports. Generally, imports having a value in excess of US$100 must be covered by letter of credit. Before goods can be cleared through the customs, the importer must present a release certificate issued by the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank to show that all customs duties, taxes, and other levies found by the Bureau of Customs to be payable upon importation of the merchandise have been collected by the agent bank. The release certificate requirement applies both to imports covered by letters of credit opened by the banks and to "no- dollar" imports (imports financed by importers7 own exchange or not involving payments f r om the Philippines), the only exceptions being certain imports by fore ign government agencies, imports under the U.S. aid program, imports by local industries of raw materials to be used in their own operations, goods imported as Japanese war reparations and certified as such by the Reparations Commission, and certain other imports not intended for resale. Imports may be financed by means of documents against payment or documents against acceptances, not exceeding 90 days for importers, or 120 days for producers. However, imports by producers or importers of agricultural machinery and equipment under documents against acceptance arrangements may be liquidated within 180 days, which period may be extended for up to 90 days should the producers or importers concerned fa il to meet their obligations within 180 days. Imports of raw materials by local indus- tries may be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand d ra f t, telegraphic t rans fe r, or mail transfer within 120 days a f ter the issuance of the release certificate by the authorized agent bank concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign or domestic currency. However, applications to purchase US$5,000 or more require sworn statements concerning the purpose of the payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of fore ign sales. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are prohibited. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d r a ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collec- 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES tion of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Proceeds f rom all exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may either be retained by the recipient or sold by him in the market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Capital There are no restrictions on capital movements. The banks may request applicants for exchange of capital transfers to complete a spe- cial information fo rm prescribed by the Central Bank. Also, applicants for foreign exchange equivalent to US$5,000 or more must submit a sworn statement concerning the purpose of the payment. Commercial banks or other institutions may extend or receive credit abroad to finance bona fide foreign transactions. The Central Bank controls and limits the use of stand-by letters of credit when the facilities are to be used to meet financing requirements in Philippine currency, rather than for trade or production purposes. At least 60 per cent of the capital of any enterprise exploiting natural resources must be owned by Philippine citizens, but for this purpose U.S. citizens, corporations, and associations are, until July 3, 1974, given the same status as Philippine citizens by virtue of the Laurel- Langley Agreement. Retail trade establishments in principle must be owned by Philippine citizens. Changes during 1966 January 24. The "special time deposit" requirements for less essential imports were reduced to half of the previous levels (to 50 per cent, 37% per cent, and 12% per cent, respectively for the three categories of goods). Thirty days thereafter, the required percentages were further reduced to one four th of the former requirements (to 25 per cent, 18% per cent, and 6% per cent, respectively). February 8. The release certificates, which importers must present before goods could be cleared through customs, were adapted for a different purpose. Formerly used to ensure prior payment of "special time deposits," they were now issued upon payment by the importer to 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES authorized agent banks of the amount of customs duties, taxes, and other levies due on the merchandise covered by the certificate. March 1. The Monetary Board approved a proposal of the U.S. Agency for International Development that dollar proceeds of AID- financed exports f rom the Philippines to Korea, Laos, and Viet-Nam be earmarked for Philippine imports of goods and services from the United States. March 29. "Special time deposits" were no longer required for any imports. May 11. Economic and other sanctions were imposed on Rhodesia. May 31. Imports of canned sardines f rom South Afr ica were pro- hibited. June 15. Regulations were issued to assure compliance with require- ments under the U.S. AID-Financed Procurement Program, concerning the use of the proceeds f rom Philippine exports to Korea, Laos, and Viet-Nam. August 1. With all applications for foreign exchange for financial remittances in amounts of US$5,000 or more, sworn statements of the purpose of the purchase were required. The purpose of the requirement was to curb smuggling and tax evasion. August 23. Export licensing by the Central Bank and prior verifica- tion of export prices were discontinued. Authorized agent banks could register exports upon receipt of exporters' reports of foreign sales. September 6. The President issued Administrative Order No. 21 declaring government policy on the entry of fore ign capital and setting forth guidelines on preferred areas of investment. The repatriation of capital, the remittance of earnings, and the remittance of payments on loans at the prevailing exchange rate were all guaranteed. If exchange controls were imposed, fore ign investors would be granted the same treatment as Philippine nationals. September 9. Regulations were established to control and limit those private foreign borrowings through stand-by letters of credit which were designed to meet financing requirements in Philippine currency. October 14. A bilateral payments arrangement with Indonesia signed on August 27 became effective. Most trade transactions were to be invoiced in U.S. dollars and covered by irrevocable U.S. dollar letters of credit, and the corresponding payments were to be channeled through a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. November 14. Imports of agricultural machinery and equipment under documents against acceptance arrangements could be settled within 180 days; this period could be extended by 90 days. 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES December 1. The President suspended for one month the effective date of a Department of Foreign A f fa i rs Circular ordering immediate implementation of a regulation requiring the submission of a shipper's export declaration by exporters to the Philippines. (On January 4, 1967, a fo rmal agreement was signed between the United States and the Philippines whereby the U.S. Government agreed that for a period of six months beginning on January 16, 1967 it would make the necessary arrangements for Philippine consular establishments in the United States to be provided with an authenticated copy of a shipper's export declaration for exports of any commodity from the customs area of the United States to the Philippines.) 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo or Esc 28.75 = US$1. Transactions in pounds sterling with the public by the Bank of Portugal and authorized banks take place at fixed exchange rates of Esc 80.17 buying, and Esc 80.83 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other quoted currencies * are based on these buying and selling rates for the pound sterling and on the exchange rate of the quoted currency in London and other markets. For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" ( for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange mar- ket. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies and to obtain short-term credits abroad. Capital held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender requirements may be transferred to other residents at freely negotiated rates. There is no fo rwa rd exchange market in operation in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with individual customers. The exchange rates for these transactions may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate. The com- mercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap trans- actions with the Bank of Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The xThe quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts, and there is a special account for certain transactions with Cuba. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL exchange control regulations of Portugal are for the most part applied uniformly throughout the Area, and current payments between the various territories are made freely through multilateral clearing accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade control; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating within the office of the Directorate-General or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by economic coor- dination departments associated with the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars ( for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) or in escudos or the currency of the partner country ( for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, and Po land). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and for- eign countries, (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal, and (c) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. For periods longer than one year, authorization is required from the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance with the agree- ment of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for sanitary rea- sons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the preven- tion of trade frauds. Any physical or jur id ical entity may be an importer, the only requirement being that the importer pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese over- seas territories are free of restriction. In exceptional cases, a registration procedure is applied, for payment control purposes. Controls are also exercised to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via Macao. Certain products, such as sugar, cotton, some oilseed products, and a few other goods may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Practically all imports from outside the Portuguese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufac tured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small num- 506 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL her of finished products, including vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons. The liberalization does not apply, however, to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports f rom these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported f rom other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global quotas or under individual authorization. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports from cer- tain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products are f ree of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA countries. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made free ly through authorized banks. Such payments to for- eign countries are also f ree of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures which differ in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely for the various transactions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of foreign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equiva- lent of Esc 50,000 per capita and per annum for tourism; and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (simi- lar to the import bulletins). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure ade- quate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin So long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the fore ign exchange indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and fre igh t, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to sur- render. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments agreements. Also, payments f rom residents of countries with which Portugal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other payments for invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses. However, authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in foreign currencies. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transaction, however, authori- zation to export f rom Portugal (and to import into the overseas terri- tory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries (exclud- ing credits with a term of one year or less, which require approval by the Bank of Portugal) are subject to the prior authorization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; and for transactions exceeding Esc 10 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Moreover, be fo re granting an authorization, the Inspectorate-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal as to the monetary and foreign exchange aspects of the transaction involved. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Foreign investments in Portugal f rom residents of countries that are members of or associated with the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development, i.e., unless a speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a ma jor i ty of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, and fishing. The transfer abroad of the fu ll proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign investment which originated in a bona fide inward capital movement from OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a maturity up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the underlying commercial or service transaction. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital move- ment is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not con- sidered indispensable for the national economic development. In prac- tice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized f ree ly; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or f rom Portugal is involved, a prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portu- gal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized up to Esc 100,000 annually for a fam i ly. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a fam i ly when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD coun- tries are authorized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inheritances, and dowries exceeding this amount, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of the death. Gifts 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL to relatives resident in OECD countries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of l ife insurance policies due from Portuguese insurers are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a surrender value. Capital movements and transfers of assets not enumerated in the preceding paragraphs and involving countries other than those men- tioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Changes during 1966 July 1. The remaining quantitative restrictions on imports of indus- trial products originating in EFTA countries were abolished. July 1. The global quotas went into effect for the period July 1, 1966- June 30, 1967 for imports of industrial products originating in GATT countries that are not members of EFTA. July 29. A trade agreement with Japan was signed. Quantitative restrictions on imports originating in Japan were sharply reduced. Portugal ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. September 7. The bilateral payments agreement with Brazil was terminated. November 3. A new trade and payments agreement with Poland was signed, to come into effect on January 1, 1967. The agreement provided for settlements in pounds sterling and increased the swing credit to £360,000. 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc or RF 100 = US$1. The National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has established official limits based on par values for the U.S. dollar and for other convertible currencies; those for the U.S. dollar are RF 99.25 buying and RF 100.75 selling. The authorized banks7 rates may fluctu- ate freely between these limits. The National Bank maintains official quotations within these limits for the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies;2 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were RF 99.50 and RF 100.50, respectively, on December 31, 1966. There is a free market for transactions in banknotes. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted and specified by the National Bank (see footnote 2 ). Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of public policy. Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Modele I ). The approval 1In view of certain changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on February 13, 1967. 2 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian tire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and U.S. dollars. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA of an import license application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license permits the importa- tion of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified com- panies. Import licenses must be presented to the customs off ic ia ls when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payments for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles; such approval is normally given in all cases where no illegal outflow of capital seems to be involved. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages a f ter income tax of fore ign na t iona ls employed in Rwanda under con trac t; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may transfer their net income f rom rents (af ter deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for ma in tenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. With permission from the National Bank, residents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs. Purchases of fore ign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remit- tances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Resi- dents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil and oil products to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports except trade samples, baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). For coffee exports, the Declaration must be presented to 512 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA an authorized bank for certification; Declarations for other exports are certified by the National Bank. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certifica- tion. For exports to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda payments must be collected not later than 30 days af ter the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. All claims must be collected within 30 days f rom the date on which they become payable. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Invest- ment Law of May 4, 1964, or to the assets of a foreign national return- ing to his own country. Changes during 1966 April 1. A comprehensive exchange re fo rm took place. The dual exchange market was unified, quantitative restrictions on imports (with the exception of certain prohibitions maintained for reasons of public policy) were abolished, and restrictions on payments for current invisibles were relaxed. April 7. An initial par value for the Rwanda f ranc of RF 100 per US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. April 27. All sales of immovable property situated in Rwanda required prior approval by the National Bank if one of the parties were a foreigner or a nonresident. June 1. A f ree market for banknotes was established. The authorized banks were instructed to maintain the middle rates for banknotes denominated in convertible currencies within 15 per cent either side of the parity rates; for such banknotes, the spread between the buying 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA and selling rate could not exceed 2 per cent either side of the middle rate. The middle rates for other banknotes could fluctuate free ly. The authorized banks required the prior approval of the National Bank of Rwanda to import or export foreign banknotes. September 15. Foreign exchange transferred to Rwanda for the financing of local activities could, with the permission of the National Bank, be credited to a special account, with the possibility of repatria- tion under certain conditions. November 10. The Japanese yen, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the Uganda shilling were added to the specified currencies. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 11. Bank transfers became the only permitted method of payment to foreign countries. January 12. The nontransferable part of rental income was required to be deposited in a blocked account to be used for tax payments and maintenance expenditures. February 13. The importation f rom Rhodesia of mining products, tobacco, sugar, meat and meat products, and hides and skins was pro- hibited. All activities were prohibited that facilitated the export of these products by Rhodesia, as were all transactions in respect of any of these products when shipped f rom Rhodesia, including any transfer of funds to Rhodesia in connection with such activities or transactions. The participation in any manner in the supply of oil or oil products to Rhodesia was prohibited. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian riyal or SRls 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. There are no restric- tions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22,1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting f rom government subsidy, are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1966 May 20. The government subsidy on imported foodstuffs was dis- continued, except that on wheat, rice, and meat; the meat subsidy was reduced to 10 per cent. June 11. A Banking Control Law entered into force which set forth the conditions for obtaining a license to operate a bank and the Mone- tary Agency's powers of control in respect of national and foreign 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA banks. Licenses for foreign banks required the approval of the Council of Ministers. June 16. Qatar and the Trucial States, with the exception of Abu Dhabi, temporarily adopted the Saudi Arabian riyal as their unit of currency to replace the "Gulf rupee" issued by India. Later in the year, the Saudi Arabian riyal was replaced by the Qatar-Dubai riyal. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the BCEAO under the super- vision of the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks in accordance with general or special authorization of the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; the former require the approval of the BCEAO. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself but require the approval of the BCEAO; this approval relates to the manner of payment only. Prescription of Currency Senegal is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Guinea and Mali, with which Senegal has concluded bilateral payments agreements, are made through special accounts; the account with Guinea is denominated in U.S. dollars, and that with Mali in French francs. Settlements with other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. l rThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Permitted debits and credits, however, are d i f- ferent from those allowed in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South A f r ican origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a number of goods is pro- hibited from any source. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area other than Guinea or Mali are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free f rom import license, require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Certificates of importation provide for the import of certain goods f rom OECD countries or EEC countries with- out quantitative restrictions; the liberalization list for the EEC countries is more extensive than that for the OECD countries. A jo int French-Senegalese Committee establishes minimum amounts for imports of goods from the French Franc Area. There is an annual pro- gram for imports from all other countries. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most com- modities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. The program contains global quotas for imports f rom the EEC countries except France and for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area. The latter quotas may also be used for imports f rom EEC countries other than France. There is a separate global quota for imports of certain textiles f rom countries with abnormal competitive advantages. An import license or import certificate entitles the importer to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents to prove that the goods have been shipped are submitted to an author- ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted free ly; those to other countries are usually subject to the approval of the BCEAO. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents from profits or dividends and transfers of other income are authorized freely by the BCEAO. Payments for many other invisibles are approved with varying degrees of restrictiveness. Foreign nationals considered as residents may 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL repatriate up to 50 per cent of their net salary a f ter taxation; those considered as nonresidents may transfer their entire net salary. There is a basic tourist allocation for travel to countries outside the French Franc Area of CFAF 75,000 for each person a year; larger amounts may be granted upon submission of evidence concerning the applicant's income. Allocations for business travel are granted according to the nature and length of the trip and status of the applicant. Travelers to the other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union 2 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of 750 French francs, or up to 75,000 CFA or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of 750 French francs in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to ensure that payment conforms to the prescription of currency regulations, to assure ade- quate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal, and to prevent certain re-exports. Exports to countries outside the French Franc Area also require a fore ign exchange commitment (engagement de change), by which the exporter undertakes to repatriate the proceeds within a specified period. All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect from nonresidents amounts exceeding F 1,000, or the equivalent in CFA francs, in respect of services and of income f rom foreign securities; if these collections are in foreign cur- 2 The West African Monetary Union consists of Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL rencies, they must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of receipt. Travelers from the other countries of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union (see footnote 2) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currencies is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Senegal and other French Franc Area countries (except temporarily Guinea and Ma l i) are f ree of con tro l; those between Senegal and all other countries require approval. Foreign investment in Senegal is subject to the prior approval of the BCEAO; approval depends on the nature and purpose of the pro- posed investment. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, as amended on May 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement) with the Government by which he receives additional legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A convention d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a minimum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a minimum investment of CFAF 40 mil- lion in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and s taff, may be accorded the designation of priority enter- prises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Changes during 1966 March 12. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, on which exporters could retain certain portions of export proceeds received in non-Franc Area currencies, were abolished. May 28. Imports of many additional commodities originating in EEC countries other than France were l ibera l ized. 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL August 6. Imports of various animal, vegetable, and industrial fa ts and oils originating in EEC countries other than France were liberalized. November 26. Decree No. 66.875 modified the regulations introduced by Decree No. 60.330. By virtue of the latter, an import license had been required for all goods shipped f rom the French Franc Area but originating elsewhere. Henceforth, this requirement would not apply to goods shipped f rom the French Franc Area but originating in a member state of the EEC. December 10. Notice No. 406 eased some of the procedures relating to imports of nonliberalized goods originating in or shipped f rom coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. The validity of import licenses was extended to one year. Nonliberalized spare parts valued at up to CFAF 25,000 f.o.b. could be imported f ree of import license. December 15. A new West A f r ican Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Upper Volta. 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per Leone or Le 1 — US$1.40. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0 10s. Od., subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for traveling expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency.1 Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia), including payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts f rom other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified cur- rency.2 Receipts f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country aln this survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Scheduled Terri- tories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South Africa. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE outside the Sterling Area that is free ly exchangeable for Sierra Leonean currency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author- ized payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are cred- ited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Portugal and South A f r ica are prohibited. All imports from Mainland China and countries in the Soviet area, except those that are members of the GATT, and certain commodities 3 from any source require individual import licenses. With the exception of imports of textiles from Japan, which require an individual license, all other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R., and most countries and territories4 outside Mainland China and the Soviet area may be 8 The list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and preparations, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewe lry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, raw tobacco, textiles, fiber suitcases, umbrellas, plastic footwear, cement, and commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kernel, and palm oil). * Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Libya, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat and Oman, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Windward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE made freely under open general license. Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Remittances to all other countries require approval. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 during a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. Travelers may take out up to the equivalent of Le 50 of their basic exchange allowance in foreign currency notes other than Rho- desian pound notes. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, the equivalent of Le 20 in any combination of leone notes and sterling notes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain destinations, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to South A f r ica and Portugal are prohibited. The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an author- ized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained; exports to Rhodesia, however, must be paid for in fu l l, in a specified currency, prior to shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes other than Guinea f r anc notes; the importation of the latter is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Investments by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Leone requires permission if the issuer is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking indus- trial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Changes during 1966 January 27. Parliament ratified a protocol signed on July 31, 1965, to the trade and payments agreements with Guinea. February 4- The West A f r ican pound ceased to be legal tender in Sierra Leone. February 9. The Exchange Control (Import and Export) Order was amended to permit the unlimited importation into Sierra Leone of all currencies except the Guinea f r a n c; the importation of the latter was prohibited. February 9. Public Notice No. 15 reduced from Le 500 to Le 50 the amount in foreign currency notes that resident travelers could take out in addition to the Le 20 allowance that could be taken out in any combination of leone notes and sterling notes. Certain articles were specified that travelers could not export on their person or in their baggage; these included diamonds, jewelry exceeding Le 200 in value, etc. March 29. Any resident or nonresident could freely buy, sell, or export the Sierra Leonean gold coins issued in commemoration of the fifth anniversary of independence. July 18. Securities payable in Rhodesian pounds were designated foreign currency securities, unless they were also payable in a Sterling Area currency other than South A f r i c an pounds. General permissions for transactions in any securities held for residents of Rhodesia were withdrawn. Restrictions were imposed on transactions by Sierra Leonean residents in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds, and on transactions in Treasury bills involving residents of Rhodesia. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE July 18. Exports to Rhodesia were required to be paid for in fu l l, in a specified currency, prior to dispatch of the goods. July 18. Payments due by residents of Sierra Leone to residents of Rhodesia could be made only in Sierra Leonean currency to Rhodesian Accounts. September 1. Rhodesia was excluded f rom Sierra Leone's definition of the Scheduled Territories. October 6. Import applications for 1967 were invited. It was announced that, with the exception of specified goods for which a spe- cific import license must be obtained, all goods from a long list of coun- tries could be imported freely under Open General License No. 1 of 1967, issued on the same day ( for Japan, the Open General License did not apply to textiles). The countries concerned were the same to which the Open General License for 1966 had applied, except that Rhodesia and Togo had been omitted while Singapore and the U.S.S.R. had been added. November 21. Burma was excluded from the Scheduled Territories as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE * Exchange Rate System The monetary unit is the Malayan Dollar, which is issued by the Malaya-British Borneo Currency Board and also circulates in Malay- sia. The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malayan dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Malayan dollar is in practice pegged to the pound sterling at M$l = 2s. 4d. The Currency Board stands ready to buy sterling f rom, and sell sterling to, banks in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei at 2s. 4%d., and 2s. 3%d., per M$l, respectively. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.2 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malayan dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1966, the commercial banks7 selling rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.083 per US$1. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance adminis- ters exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the general prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Certain payments to Poland are made through a special account. Payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. 1 Singapore became a member of the International Monetary Fund on August 3, 1966. 2 The list of specified currencies is identical with that established under the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Malayan dollars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of resi- dents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts are credited with those capital proceeds due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be transferred abroad. Balances on Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts may either be invested in any Sterling Area security with a maturity beyond five years that is quoted on a recognized stock exchange in the Sterling Area or, with permission of the Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance, be trans- ferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom. Permission for such transfers to Blocked Sterling Accounts is given freely. In cases of hardship, moderate amounts are released f rom Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of investments made out of Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts must be credited to a Blocked Malayan Dollar Account. Earnings accruing from such invest- ments, however, are freely transferable. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are permitted free ly under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons, and in appro- priate cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. A number of imports are restricted for protective reasons. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South A f r ica or any terri- tory administered by South A f r ica are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in Albania, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, or Rumania. Payments for all permitted imports may be freely made, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are observed. 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in general, author- ized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Exchange Control Division of the Min- istry of Finance, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic travel allowance equivalent to £ stg. 500 a person a year for travel outside the Sterling Area. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given free ly. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Malayan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Singapore by resident travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malayan notes that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of certain qualities, exports and re-exports of rice are suspended. Exports of certain textiles to specified destinations are subject to restrictive licensing. Most other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area and for exports to any country of gold in any form and of precious stones; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Trav- elers coming direct f rom Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Malayan notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malayan notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Singapore and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is free ly granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds f rom an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval, if it is to be made other- wise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that subscription monies are derived f rom an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. The repatriation of initial capital and appreciation to countries outside the Sterling Area is permitted only for investment projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities since January 1, 1950; the proceeds realized f rom investments in recognized marketable securities are not remittable unless accruing to a resident of a Scandinavian country. Funds of a capital nature owned by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, the transfer of which is not approved by the exchange control authorities, are in the first instance credited to Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Balances in such accounts may, on applica- tion, be freely transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. However, remittances from Singapore to the Scandinavian countries by residents of those countries in respect of their own assets are permitted freely on application. Borrowing f rom local banks by nonresident- controlled companies is subject to controls. Investments by Singapore nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Changes during 1966 January 1. Barter trade between Singapore and Indonesia was resumed on a limited scale. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE March 1. Imports of bicycles and bicycle parts from any country required a specific license and became subject to quota. March 5. Imports of iron and steel wire from all sources required a specific license and became subject to quota. April 2. A trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation treat- ment was signed with the U.S.S.R.; it came into force immediately. Within the framework of quotas to be agreed upon, the proceeds from the import into Singapore of Soviet goods would be utilized for counterimport into the U.S.S.R. of goods manu fac tu red in Singapore. April 2. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in the U.S.S.R. May 5. A trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation treat- ment was signed with Bu lgar ia; it came into force immediately. The volume of Bulgarian purchases of goods manufactured in Singapore would in part be related to the import into Singapore of goods of Bulgarian origin. May 16. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in Bulgaria. May 30. Assembled motor vehicles, new or used, from all sources became subject to specific import licensing and quota allocation. Quotas for the second half of 1966 were based on average retained imports in 1964 and 1965 of importers and were set at 100 per cent of half-yearly past performance for passenger cars and 80 per cent for commercial vehicles. The registration fees on motor vehicles of Commonwealth origin were increased. June 1. Timber exports were controlled through a Timber Export Industry Board. June 7. A trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation treat- ment was signed with Poland; it came into force immediately. Seventy- five per cent of the proceeds f rom the sale of specified Polish goods to Singapore would be used by Poland for importing manufactured goods from Singapore; payments for these Polish and Singaporean goods would be channeled through a special account subject to a swing credit. June 18. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in Poland. July 5. Imports of fishing nets were liberalized from all sources. August 2. Imports from any source of specified fresh fruits required a specific license. 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE August 12. The general prohibition of imports of goods of Indonesian origin was l i f ted; when shipped in vessels of less than 200 tons, how- ever, they were only admitted through the Telok Ayer Basin. August 17. It was announced that Singapore and Malaysia would adopt separate currencies f rom June 12, 1967. August 26. Imports of cement from Mainland China no longer were prohibited. August 26. Imports of cement in the fo rm of clinkers from all sources required a specific license. September 10. Preliminary agreement was reached with Indonesia to resume normal trade and payments relations. September 13. All accounts designated as Indonesian Accounts were redesignated as External Accounts and were treated on the same basis as the accounts of residents of other non-Sterling Area countries. September 16. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in Argentina. October 8. Imports of hydrochloric acid f rom all sources required a specific license. October 11. Payments facilities were created for imports f rom Indo- nesia. Eight banks in Singapore, acting as the correspondents of Indo- nesian exchange banks, were appointed to accept letters of credit. November 17. A trade agreement was initialed with Hungary; sig- nature took place on March 1, 1967. November 18. The issue of export licenses for rice was suspended; shipping agents were requested not to accept consignments for rice to West Malaysia. November 22. The re-export of rice was prohibited as a temporary measure to ensure adequate supplies for the domestic market. December 1. Revised import quotas were announced for motor vehicles. The new quotas were based on the average semiannual retained imports for the years 1964 and 1965 and would apply to vehicles imported for sale in Singapore during the six-month period f rom December 1. For both new and old motor vehicles for transporta- tion of persons, the quota was fixed at 75 per cent; for commercial vehicles (new and old) the quota was 60 per cent. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA1 Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling or So. Sh. 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali Na t ional Bank carries out exchange transactions in "convertible" currencies 2 with au thor ized dealers at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par value or o f f ic ial rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to o f f ic ial par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and five commercial banks appointed as author- ized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in gold and fore ign currencies. The banks charge a foreign exchange commission ( in c lud ing bank ing commission) of 2 per cent or 2.7 per cent, respectively, for pur- chases and sales of banknotes and 0.7 per cent for all other exchange transactions. Au tho r ized exchange dealers gene ra l ly do not conduct fo rw a rd exchange transac t ions on b eh a lf of the pub l i c, a l though th is is not p roh ib i ted. An exchange tax of 1.5 per cent applies to all pu rchases by nonbank s, against local currency, of fo re ign exchange other than purchases made in connection with foreign aid or made by or on beha lf of the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, persons with d ip loma t ic or consular status, and international organizations. Administration of Control The M in is try of Indus t ry and Commerce is the p r inc ipal government agency conce rned w i th the imp lemen ta t ion and opera t ion of t rade and ex ch ange con tro ls. It has been given the au tho r i ty to regu la te and con- trol a ll fo re ign economic t ransac t ions and to establish policy for the l icen s ing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is au tho r ized to determine the rates at which fo re ign currencies are to be nego t ia ted, to establish a list of "convertible" currenc ies ,2 and to appoint banks as au thor ized exchange dealers. It may also implement the t rade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of n ine members representing various ministries, the Somali Na t ional B a n k, the Customs Au tho r i ty, and the police, advises the Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control 1In view of certain changes th at took place on January 1, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian do l lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark. French francs, Indian rupees, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. On March 20, 1967. however. Indian rupees and Japanese yen were omitted and Djibouti francs and Saudi Arabian riyals were added. 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA of foreign economic transactions. Licensing Committees, usually con- sisting of members representing the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and for transfers in respect of services. The Somali National Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are au thor ized by the Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with the United Arab Republic are largely made in "convertible" cur- rencies (see footnote 2 ); 30 per cent of payments for imports f rom the United Arab Republic and all payments for invisibles to the United A rab Republic other than those for Suez Canal dues are debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with that country. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see foot- note 2 ). Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts in Somali shillings with any bank in Somalia. These accounts may be used freely for transactions in Somalia; authorization is required, however, for all transfers abroad. Diplomats, consular agents, and international organizations may open accounts in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 2 ). Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Kenya are prohibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities f rom all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires ind iv idual license. All other commodities may be imported freely. Indi- v idual licenses are required for 33 commodities or groups of commodi- ties, constituting approximately one half of total imports in value. These commodities comprise four broad categories: (1) items subject to control for reasons of security, health, or pub l ic policy; (2) com- modities which are domestically produced or the import and distribu- tion of which is handled by state trading agencies; (3) commodities imported under tied loans and grants; and (4) items considered to be of a luxury or nonessential character. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license d iffer in weight, quantity, or value by 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 8 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports, provided that in due course an import declaration is submitted as evidence of actual importation. Special payments regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized banking institutions. Such traders are permitted to use the proceeds from their exports to a neighboring country for the import of goods from that country up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances remaining f rom such com- pensation transactions must be surrendered. A tax of 1.5 per cent is levied on imports financed without official foreign exchange (franco valuta imports). Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are generally met. Transfers of salaries, wages, and professional earnings are nor- mally allowed up to 50 per cent of the amounts earned in Somalia. The Somali National Bank may directly grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for exchange for amounts exceeding those limits and for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tourist travel, there is an allowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Nonresident travelers may take out free ly any fore ign exchange wh ich they b rought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins, provided that they leave the country w i th in th ree mon ths of the ir arrival. Resident travelers may take out f ree ly So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equ iva lent of So. Sh. 200 in fore ign bankno tes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Kenya are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of pub l ic policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Exports of bananas and ten other commodities or groups of commodi- ties are sub ject to license; other exports may be made f ree ly. All exports are subject to a statistical and adm in is tra t ive tax of 5 per cent. Except in border trade (see section on Impor ts and Import Payments, a b o v e ), all export proceeds must be repa t r ia ted, dec lared, and o f fe red for sale to the Somali N a t ion al Bank or to an au tho r ized exchange dealer within five business days a f t er their rece ip t. The Somali Na t ional Bank may exempt exporters f rom the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an au tho r ized dealer w i th in five business days a f ter their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions f rom the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in f ree ly with them any amount in fo re ign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and co ins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may br ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold coins they bring in. Capital Most capital transactions are subject to licensing. In accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, fore ign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of P lann ing and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those which engage in irrigation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, ana lyz ing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and mineral exploration), profits may 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA be t rans fe r red abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the c ap i t al inves ted; th is t ran s fer r ight is cumu la t ive for a period of three years. The cap i tal itself may be t rans fe r red ab road beginning f ive years a f t er the da te of registration. P ro f i ts resu l t ing f r om other fo re ign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years a f ter the date of registration. Changes during 1966 March 16. An announcement in the Off ic ial Bulletin confirmed that impor ts of Somali banknotes and coins by resident and nonresident t rave le rs were l im i ted to So. Sh. 200 a person. This limit had come into opera t ion on February 24,1966. March 27. Exports of bananas to countries of the Middle East were made sub ject to export licenses. May 4- E ight East A f r i c an coun tr ies (Bu rund i, Ethiopia, Kenya, Ma law i, Mau r i t ius, Tanzan ia, Uganda, and Z amb i a) signed a pre- liminary agreement on the establishment of an East A f r ican Economic Commun i ty. May 29. Imports of rice required a license. June 22. With m inor exceptions (such as personal effec ts of travelers), exports to Kenya and imports of goods originating in or shipped from Kenya were proh ib i ted. June 29. All exports of bananas required a license. August 1. A Ministry of P lann ing and Coord ina t ion was established. Its f u n c t i o ns inc luded the reg is tra t ion of fo re ign enterprises in Somalia. August. The East A f r ican shilling was no longer considered a "con- vertible" currency. NOTE.—The following changes took place in 1967: January 1. The exchange tax applicable to most purchases of foreign exchange was reduced f rom 3 per cent to 1.5 per cent. January 1. An import tax of 1.5 per cent would hencefor th apply to imports for which no official exchange had been granted (franco valuta impor ts). The statistical tax on imports was increased from 5-per cent to 8 per cent. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per South A f r ican Rand or R 1 — US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 199.75 buying, and R 200.75 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct fo rwa rd exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1966, were US$1.3975 buying, and US$1.3890 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Other- wise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Afr ica, South West Afr ica, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these territories are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce and Industries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries except Rhodesia may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. 1In the South African exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 538 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries out- side South A f r ica, South West Afr ica, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land (except the Blocked Accounts of residents of the last three territories —see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized pay- ments by South A f r ican residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South A f r ican resi- dents ; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country con- cerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South A f r i c a; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r ica. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents; with transfers f rom Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South A f r i c a; with transfers f rom other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of Rhodesian currency, any specified currency (see footnote 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South Afr ica, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South Afr ican residents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South A f r ica for any purpose; for pur- chases of Rhodesian currency in South A f r i c a; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents to such countries outside the Sterling A rea; with transfers from other External Accounts in South A f r ica and from External Accounts in the United Kingdom or 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country con c e rn ed ); and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South A f r ican residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South A f r ica or in any other country in the Sterling A rea; for purchases of any non-sterling currency; and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the proceeds f rom sales of South A f r ican securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred f rom South A f r ica or to another Blocked Account in South A f r ica, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities which are quoted loca l ly; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Government, Mun ic ipa l, or Public Utility Stocks, the proceeds on redemption at ma tu r i ty are free ly transferab le to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents only, of five-year trans- fe rab le bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1984, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue made available to nonresidents only, of three-year nonnegotiable, non t rans fe rab le bonds (ca l led nonres ident bonds) bearing interest at 3% per cent and repayab le (in three annual installments f rom the date of subscription) in fore ign currenc ies appli- cable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct investment in manu fac tu r ing enterprises. Emi- grants' assets that exceed the permissible transferab le amount, and the proceeds of South A f r ican securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South A f r ica or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorab le consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, be low ). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports f rom any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported f rom Botswana, Lesotho, or 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Swaziland, and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manu fac tu red in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1966, as amended during the year, distinguished between the fo l low ing categories: (1) Goods on the f ree list, i.e., those that could be imported with- out import license. The list included tea, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South A f r ica, newspapers, books, periodi- cals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, scientific and laboratory equipment, and X-ray apparatus and film. (2) Goods that required import permits for which no specific annual quotas were fixed for individual importers. This list included capital plant and equipment and raw materials. A distinction was made between two categories: goods required by manu fac tu re rs for use or processing in their own factories, and goods imported by merchants for resale to indus try. Permits for raw materials were granted on a basis of f o ur mon ths' stock at the current ra te of consumption to m anu f a c- turers who imported such goods for their own use. For cap i tal p lant and equ ipmen t, permits were granted on a basis of essentiality, due regard being taken of domestic availability determined in the light of price, quality, and delivery. To merchants importing these goods for resale, permits for plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,000 per single unit and for raw materials were issued within the limits of individual allocations. For plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price for each individual item of more than R 1,000 and less than R 50,000, permits were generally issued freely af ter July 1966. (3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) materials for motor vehicles. Manu fac tu red cars were not subject to quotas and permits to import them were freely available, with the fo l low ing excep- tion: for vehicles with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,900 the permit was free ly issued only if the vehicle had been used by the applicant for not less than six months outside South A f r ica and provided that it had been registered in the name of the applicant during that period. Permits for CKD material for motor vehicles were granted as follows: (a) for commercial vehicles, on the basis of five months7 stock for light vehicles and nine months' stock for heavy vehicles; (b) for locally manufac- tured passenger vehicles (i.e., vehicles for which an acceptable local content program had been subm i t ted), on the basis of five months' s tock; and (c) for locally assembled passenger vehicles, on a restricted basis; additional import facilities, however, could be earned for these vehicles by under tak ing to increase local content. (4) Goods that required import permits and for which annual quotas were granted to individual importers. For purposes of allocation, these 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA goods were divided in two categories which corresponded to general merchandise not made locally (Category A) and locally made goods (Category B ). The items in Category A comprised a number of con- sumer goods, office machines, cameras and photographic materials, and cotton and synthetic fibers. Category B included, in addition to gen- eral merchandise not in Category A, milled rice, timber, fertilizers, and textile piece goods; juke boxes, pin tables, and television sets also were listed in this group, but as a general rule no permits were given for these last three items. (5) Goods on the restricted list, i.e., those that required specific import permits. These were goods that were available locally, or for which substitutes f rom domestic sources were adequate, both in quan- tity and quality. They included certain consumer goods (mainly food) and certain raw materials, such as cement, fertilizers, natural asphalt, ju te fiber, cardboard boxes, and wood. Importers of general merchan- dise and merchant importers of raw materials wishing to import any of the goods in this group could convert their import permits into specific permits (in which case the goods to be imported were specif- ically described), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific permit for which application was made fe ll within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such individual licenses could be obtained by the surrender of the original import permits on the basis of R 3 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit obtained. The first R 5,000 of an importer's total annual quota could be converted into a specific permit for any articles in this category (with three minor specified exceptions) on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this category were imported under rebate of customs duty, a specific permit was not required and there was no import permit loss by conversion. The Import Control Regulations for 1967 follow essentially the classi- fication of imports set out above. A number of items, however, have been added to those exempt from import license, certain other items no longer require a specific import permit, and approval and allocation practices have been made more liberal for many other items. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presenta- tion to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transaction, there is no limitation on the amount; for others, authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income pay- 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA ments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r ica, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31,1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked fund§ or otherwise held by non- residents is freely t rans fe rab le to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allo- cation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West A f r ica. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South A f r ica may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East A f r ica, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r ica within 12 months af ter arrival may take with them up to R 100 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instru- ments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r ica. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtain- able overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months from the date of shipment and 30 days f rom the date of collection, 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days f rom the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, residents may bring in R 20 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, nonresident travelers coming from Mozam- bique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South A f r i c an securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above ). The fo l low ing payments related to non- resident capital may be carried out by the au thor ized banks without reference to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank: t rans fe rs to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired a f ter June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of balances of up to R 50, le ft over f rom the reinvestment of blocked f u n d s; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident bene- ficiary f r om the proceeds of legacies f r om estates in South A f r i ca that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant fam i l ies whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allow- ance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, t ran s fe r red; any balance exceeding the permis- sible transferab le amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds ( for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a fam i ly were pe rm i t ted ); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at o f f ic ial market rates in three equal annual ins ta l lmen ts, together with interest at 3% per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar fac i l i t ies have been available through subscription to five-year transferab le bonds. The South A f r ican Reserve Bank may approve transfers of repay- ments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries, of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or 644 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA for the transfer of any dividends by them provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of cap i tal by residents in general require the approval of the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the pur- chase of South A f r ican (or o ther) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South A f r i c an residents to exercise rights arising f rom existing holdings of shares in fore ign companies quo ted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r i c an stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, sub ject to certain condi- tions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or t rans fer to, Ma law i, Rhodesia, Zamb ia, and the neighboring Portuguese territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South A f r ican owned or controlled pro jec ts are considered by the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas f rom being used as a first step in the onward t ran s fer of cap i tal to other countries. For three years a f ter then a r r ival in South A f r i c a, immigrants may dispose of their fore ign assets held abroad and also invest in South A f r i c an securities abroad. How- ever, the proceeds f rom the sale of all securities brought in by immi- grants are b locked; the blocking is norma l ly for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand can repatriate funds f rom South A f r i c a: (1) by tak ing up special Non- resident Bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these ma ture in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be w i thd rawn at the o f f ic ial ra te; (2) by ho ld ing certain Government, Mun ic ipa l, and Pub l ic U t i l i ty Stocks, and South A f r ican National Savings Cer t if ica tes for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be t ran s fe r red abroad at the off ic ial ra te; and (3) by exporting South A f r i c an shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad (usually at a discount on the South A f r ican quotation). 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Changes during 1966 March 15. The restriction on security arbitrage dealings by nonresi- dents imposed on July 21, 1965 was relaxed; funds remitted to South A f r ica by nonresidents to finance purchases of shares under "switch" transactions pending arrival in South A f r ica of the shares sold were permitted to be repatriated upon delivery of the shares but within three months of receipt of the remittance in South A f r ica. May 20. Second-round import allocations were announced. Alloca- tions to importers of consumer goods classified in consolidated Category A would be made equal to 75 per cent of their 1964 imports. The additional allocation for Category B consumer goods would be 20 per cent, bringing the allocation for 1966 up to 50 per cent of a firm's individual assessment basis. No change would be made in the basis on which manufacturers obtained their requirements of imported raw materials (four months7 consumption); 1966 allocations to mer- chants importing raw materials for resale would be based on 75 per cent of their 1964 imports. No stock allocation would be made for plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price in excess of R 1,000 but applications would continue to be dealt with on an individual basis of essentiality. May 26. Additional import permits were authorized to safeguard local industries against possible repercussions from the British seamen's strike. June 8. The existing control over purchases, sales, borrowing, and lending of gold and foreign currencies by authorized dealers was extended to receipt and delivery of gold and foreign currencies. July 18. Relaxations in import controls were announced in a third- round allocation amounting to R 125 million for the remainder of 1966. For consumer goods that did not fa ll within Category B, a further allocation of 25 per cent would be made which would bring the alloca- tion of these goods up to 100 per cent of 1964 imports. For Category B goods, a further allocation of 5 per cent was announced, bringing the total allocation for 1966 up to 55 per cent of an importer's assessment basis, i.e., up to the level of the allocations granted for 1965. Allocations to manufacturers for imports of raw materials were raised f rom four months to six months. Merchants importing raw materials would receive an extra 25 per cent, raising the allocation to 100 per cent of their 1964 imports. For capital goods, applications would continue to be reviewed on an end-user basis; the intent would be to allow fairly freely imports of plant required for repairs and modest expansion, while retaining a tight control over imports for new industries and for ma jor expansion. 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA July 22. The Reserve Bank allowed the commercial banks to lend in excess of established credit ceilings to finance imports of specified commodities. September 2. It was announced that fuel stocks would be built up. September 27. Former residents of South A f r ica were permitted to subscribe in blocked rand to specified 5 per cent certificates denomi- nated in U.S. dollars and to be issued in Switzerland. September 27. Export credit facilities for producers of capital goods and suppliers of technical and consultant services were announced. Capital goods involved must have at least a 60 per cent South Afr ican content. October 21. The import of South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes by nonresident travelers was limited to R 50 a person, except for travelers coming from Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia, who could bring in up to R 100. No person in South A f r ica could receive South A f r ican banknotes consigned from abroad, but authorized dealers could continue to accept such notes sent by their correspondents in Mozambique, Rho- desia, and Zambia. October 21. Blocked funds were declared not eligible for investment in the Post Office's issue of First-Series Savings Bond. October 26. Any transfer authority granted by the Reserve Bank was regarded as canceled if the applicants concerned did not avail themselves thereof within a period of three months f rom the date of the authority, unless the authority itself provided otherwise. Authorities covering the remittance of funds from South A f r ica did not entitle the applicant to effect payments either in advance or in arrears unless specifically authorized. November 1. Certain industries were offered unrestricted import per- mits for specified raw materials and other items, provided that they undertook to increase their inventories. November 20. Initial import permit allocations for 1967 were announced. The initial allocations were the same as those in 1966 for both categories of consumer goods, raw materials imported by mer- chants, textile piece goods, rice, agricultural implements, and office equipment. No initial allocations were made for timber or fertilizers since these, as usual, would be subject to special negotiations. In respect of capital equipment, "reasonable allocations" would be made after discussions with representatives of the trade to allow importers to hold stocks; this constituted a measure of relaxation compared with the 1966 initial allocations. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA December 7. It was announced that, in order to help to reduce domestic liquidity, the exchange control authorities would consider f avo r ab ly app l ica t ions to repay fore ign loans or credits before matu- rity, provided that such repayments were not financed by bank credit. December 8. A f u r t h er relaxation of import restrictions was announced. A large number of items, yet to be enumerated, would be placed on the f ree list. The fo l low ing details of the Import Control Regulations for 1967 were announced. Permits for imports of raw materials by manu fac- turers would be granted f ree ly to fac i l i ta te a substantial increase in stocks; permits for imports of raw materials by merchants would be increased f rom 100 per cent to 115 per cent of 1984 imports. Permits for imports of capital plant and equipment would be granted more free ly than previously to existing industries and to m e r ch ant impo r te rs of such goods; me rchant impor ters of mach ine tools would be pe rm i t ted to ma in ta in a stock level of six mon ths, based on cu r rent sales. A l loca- tions in 1967 for consumer items not made loca l ly, i.e., Category A items, wou ld be raised f r om 100 per cent to 110 per cent of 1984 impo r ts and some of these items would be transferred to the f ree list. Allocations for 1967 for consumer items made locally, i.e., Category B items, would be raised f rom 55 per cent to 60 per cent of the importer's assessment basis, and the va lue of permits for textile piece goods would be increased by 15 per cent in 1967. Furthermore, a cons iderab le number of consumer items made loca l ly (Category B) would be removed f rom the restricted list and would be included in the list of goods for which special import fac i l i t ies over and above normal allocations would be granted for 1967. This arrangement would result in a substantial relaxa- tion of import control insofar as these goods were concerned. December 23. The Import Control Regulations for 1967 were published. 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0148112 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta or Ptas 60.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial limits are Ptas 59.55 buy ing, and Ptas 60.45 selling, per US$1. Ma rket rates for specified currencies x admitted to the exchange market vary between limits wh ich result f rom comb in ing the o f f ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in fo r ce in the country of the other currency concerned. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute ( IEME ), which publishes the rates at wh ich it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate app l icab le to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the p rev ious week. A u t h o r i z ed banks quote buy ing and selling rates for Mo roccan d i rhams. They are a l lowed to ope ra te in fo re ign marke ts for spot t ran sac t ions and f o rw a rd transactions related to commercial t ransac t ions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceu ta, Melilla, and the Spanish towns and provinces in A f r i ca constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and, on a techn ical adm in is tra t ive level, by the IEME and the D irec tora te-General of Foreign Trade —both in the Ministry of Commerce —and by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries2 1In addition to U.S. dollars, these currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Repub l ic of China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Maur i tan ia, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, Un i ted Arab Repub l ic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral payments agreement with Morocco requiring payments between the two countries to be made in bilateral dirhams or bilateral pesetas. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN and with Turkey are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Balances on the account with Turkey are settled monthly in convertible exchange. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: external accounts in convertible pesetas and external accounts in internal pesetas. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with pro- ceeds f rom the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that marke t; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign currencies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign bank- notes) listed in the Spanish exchange marke t; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions, salaries, profits, and dividends obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transferable; with receipts f rom the National Lottery; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses of the account holder in Spain, and for the purchase of government bonds and of fixed-interest-bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corporations. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade. "Import declarations" are issued freely for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import f ree list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreement.8 8 The countries to which the import free list applies are Austria, Belgium, Den- mark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories; and Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports f rom countries to which the free list applies. Import licenses are issued freely for most goods on the import free list, and are issued in accordance with the global quotas for goods on the global quota list, when the goods originate in Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland; with certain exceptions, this regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports f rom Czechoslovakia are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction are subject to variable import levies. Exchange in the appro- priate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresi- dents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large propor- tion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services transfers may be made freely up to a pre- established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount, licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) acquired af ter July 27, 1959 may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting f rom the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct investments made after July 27, 1959 for the modernization, expansion, or establishment of Spanish enterprises are also transferred abroad without restriction. Income f rom all investments made before July 28, 1959 (which had to be approved on an individual basis) may be transferred without restriction to holders in any country if the income has accrued after Cameroon, Canada, Central Afr ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mozambique, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United States, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet-Nam, and Zambia. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN July 27, 1959; transfers abroad of income accrued be fo re Ju ly 28, 1959 and held in external accounts in internal pesetas are au tho r ized free ly by the IEME. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or w i th foreign insurance com- panies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 42,000 a person for each trip. The au thor ized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 1,500 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 75,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must app ly to the IEME for additional exchange, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Exports to all destinations of olives for oil p roduc t ion are suspended, wh i le other types of olives may be exported f ree ly. Exports of citrus f ru it to EEC countries and the United K ingdom are subject to weekly quotas. With very few exceptions, licenses for other exports are granted free ly. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through au thor ized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME t h r o u gh au tho r ized banks. Trave lers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted f ree ly in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the cap i tal of the enterprise is permitted f r e e ly, and that wh ich exceeds 50 per cent requires the au tho r iza t ion of the Counc il of M in is te rs; for pa r t ic ipa t ion in Spanish sh ipp ing companies, the f o rm er ra t io is 40 per cent. Foreign investment is not perm i t ted in Spanish enterprises whose ac t iv i ty is directly connected with national defense, pub l ic in fo rma t ion, and certain pub l ic services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture is free from control, provided that certain minimum conditions are met; these 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in existing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the minimum conditions are not fu l f i l led. All investment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effec ted either by transferr ing currencies that are negotiable in the Madr id exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital t rans fe rab le under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, f rom the liquidation of fore ign direct investments made a f ter July 27, 1959 for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of principal of investments made by nonresidents be fo re July 28, 1959 are subject to prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 ( inc lud ing investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly con- nected with national defense, pub l ic informa t ion, and certain public serv ices), are perm i t ted free ly. This applies to shares acqu ired by Spaniards resident ab road, as well as by resident or nonresident fo r- eigners, e i ther w i th convertible pesetas or with pesetas resu l t ing f rom the conversion of fo re ign currencies nego t iab le in the Spanish exchange ma rke t. Proceeds, inc lud ing cap i tal gains, f rom the l iqu ida t ion of such shares acqu ired a f ter Ju ly 27, 1959 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for fu r ther purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained f rom the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before July 28, 1959 may be used to purchase other Spanish securities, but may not be t rans fe r red abroad without prior authorization by the IEME; such au tho r iza t ion is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived f rom convertible currencies or f rom ba lances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for off ic ial regis- tration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from external accounts in internal pesetas (see 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expan- sion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enter- prises. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents7 requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to nonresidents require author- iza t ion; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the IEME. For transfers abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Changes during 1966 January 17. The global import quotas for 1966 were announced. As a result of further liberalization, the number of these quotas was reduced f rom 66 in 1965 to 63; their total value amounted to US$148 million, an increase of US$11 million over the 1965 total. January 31. A three-year trade agreement was concluded with Bulgaria. Spain would accord Bulgaria the same import licensing treatment granted to OECD countries. February 9. A three-year trade agreement was concluded with Hungary. Spain would accord Hungary the same import licensing treatment granted to OECD countries. February 10. Permitted participation, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce, of foreign capital in Spanish shipping companies was increased f rom 25 per cent to 40 per cent of total share capital. For larger participation, cabinet approval continued to be required. 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN February 22. A trade agreement with Japan was signed, retroactive f rom Janua ry 1, 1966. With the exception of listed commodities, Spain granted to goods of Japanese origin the liberalization and globalization applicable to goods f r om any other country. Japan gave assurances of similar treatment in respect of Spanish exports. February 22. The eleventh liberalization list was published. It included some 75 tar iff positions; most of these were liberalized with immediate effect, wh i le the others were to be freed on April 1, June 1, and July 1,1966. March 14. Many changes in customs duties were announced. "Anti- dumping" duties were levied on 21 categories of iron and steel products. Duties on certain capital equipment were reduced. March 24. A carta de exportador (exporter's card) was introduced. It o f fe red various privileges, such as fac i l i t ies in respect of taxation, credit, and export credit insurance to firms meeting specified m in imum requirements. In special circumstances, the carta could be granted to entire industries. May 21. A protocol to the trade and payments agreement with the United A rab Republic was signed. The swing credit was increased f rom US$2 million to US$4 million, with provision for a fur ther increase to US$7 million. July 14. Prior registration as an exporter no longer was required to obtain an export license; it remained a prerequisite for obtaining a carta de exportador. July 19. Payments between Greece and Spain were made in con- vertible currencies, without being registered in a special account. October 31. A protocol to the payments agreement with Poland was signed. Spain would accord Poland the same import licensing treatment granted to OECD countries. December 28. Until December 28, 1968, the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry was required to install, enlarge, or transfer plant used in the manu fac tu re of electrical domestic appliances. 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound or LSd 1 = US$2.87156. O f f ic ial rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan (the central b a n k ), whose rates for trans- actions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.974 buying, and LSd 0.976 selling, per £ stg. 1. The banks deal with the public at rates between LSd 0.9695 buying, and LSd 0.9785 selling, per £ stg. 1. Off ic ial rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, based on market quotations in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the de ta il being carried out by au tho r ized banks. Licensing of imports and exports is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, but all licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sudan) and/or an au thor ized bank; the latter applies to imports f rom Ma in land China and countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral coun tr ies* are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncommercial invisibles except those payable to the United Arab Repub l ic have to be settled outside these accounts. Pay- ments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any non- resident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any Convertible Account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than bilateral countries may main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated Convertible Accounts; 1The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Ind ia, Poland, and the United Arab Republic. Payments to the United Arab Republic for Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies, and most proceeds from invisibles from the United Arab Republic must be received in convertible currencies. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN these are exchangeable into any foreign currency. Bilateral Accounts are used for most transac t ions with countries w i th which the Sudan has b i la teral payments agreements (see foo tno te 1). Blocked Accounts are maintained by fo rmer residents; earnings acc ru ing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, wh ich are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits estab- lished in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to l icens ing, inc lud ing goods imported directly by the Government, books, per iod ica ls, t rade samples, and goods impor ted by parcel post or air f r e igh t, the value of wh ich does not exceed LSd 2, or, for g i f t s, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, wh ich comprises a number of essential goods, inc lud ing raw materials and some cap i tal and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely f rom any source. (3) Imports subject to ind iv idual licensing. For goods that requ ire ind iv idual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the M in is try of Commerce and Supply and va l ida ted by the Exchange Control Depar tment of the central bank (or an au thor- ized bank for imports f rom M a in l and Ch ina and countries w i th wh ich t rade or paymen ts agreements are in f o r c e ). For goods on the open general license list, impor ters must register th e ir import transac t ions with the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, be fo re entering into firm contracts with fore ign suppliers; the registration fo rm must be vali- dated by the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from Ma in land China and countries with wh ich trade or payments agree- ments are in f o r c e ). The Ministry of Commerce and Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an au thor ized bank) checks the observance of the prescription of currency require- ments and the terms of payment. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank must require a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. Each import license or registration fo rm issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply must, within 30 days f rom the date of issue, be submitted to the central bank (or an au thor ized bank for imports f rom Mainland China and countries with which trade or payments agreements are in fo rce) to be validated. The issue of an import license or the acceptance of a registration fo rm implies that foreign exchange for the goods concerned has been 557 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN allocated; the Bank of Sudan releases the exchange, provided that evi- dence of an import contract is submitted within 30 days of the issue of the license or the acceptance of the registration form. Imports f rom Hong Kong, Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. A surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A stamp duty of LSd 1 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of imports; government remittances however, are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances are per- mitted for fam i ly maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a yea r ), educa- tional expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe), and for certain other purposes. Travel allowances for tourism and other pur- poses are authorized by the Bank of Sudan at a basic rate equivalent to LSd 100 for each adult, and LSd 25 for each child, every other year. For traveling to neighboring countries, however, allowances are usually lower, except allowances for travel to the United Arab Republic, which are the equivalent of LSd 100 for an adult, and LSd 25 a child, a year. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to the country of their nationality. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, inter- est, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. Income accruing to emigrants f rom blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from blocked accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese currency; pil- grims may not export Sudanese banknotes. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all remittances. The duty is LSd 5 on those for remittances of profits and LSd 0.25 on those for remittances for other purposes; exempt are remittances for educational purposes or medical treatment and government remittances. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports f rom the Sudan are subject to licensing (mainly to ensure the surrender of the exchange proceeds) and to certain regulations governing the credit terms that can be extended to foreign buyers. Export licensing is liberal; only products in short supply are subject to restrictive licensing. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank within six months after export. Exports on credit are limited by the six-month surrender require- ment, as well as by specific regulations governing consignment sales. 558 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Cotton is in part exported by the Sudan Gezira Board. Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of cur- rency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries; pilgrims, however, are not permitted to import Sudanese banknotes. Capital Under a law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming fore ign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nation- ality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration f rom the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Changes during 1966 January 4- Authorized banks were informed they could not approve receipts in respect of exports that had Rhodesia as their final destina- tion. They could not approve or make any payments, or open letters of credit, in respect of goods imported or to be imported from Rhodesia, or approve or make any payments to persons, companies, or organiza- tions resident in Rhodesia. January 4- It was announced that, in issuing import licenses, pref- erence would be given to those countries that extended aid to the Sudan, were ma jor purchasers of Sudanese cotton, or were countries with which the Sudan had a favorab le balance of payments. January 4- Tea and textiles were removed from the open general license for imports; open general license treatment in respect of tea previously applied to Mainland China, India, and East A f r ica only. January. The issue of import licenses for Japanese textiles was suspended; it was resumed later in the year. January. The issue of import licenses for East Afr ican tea was suspended temporarily. February 14- Certain new commercial and financial arrangements were agreed with the United Arab Republic. Provision was made for 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN transfers by Sudanese resident in the United A rab Republic of their pensions or savings on f inal departure, and for transfers in either d irec t ion in respect of inheritances. March 1. Stamp duties were levied on fore ign exchange remittances and bills of exchange at rates as fo l lows: 3 per cent on remittances for tourism; 2 per cent on remittances in respect of business profits and business trips; and 1 per cent on remittances or bills of exchange ( inc lud ing checks and promissory notes) in respect of all other fore ign payments, and all payments in respect of private imports, whether by cash against documents or documentary credit or letter of credit (except remittances for educational purposes or for medical treatment and government rem i t tances ). March 12. The Gez ira Board's reserve prices for cotton were can- celed. The Board reserved the r ight to accept or re ject any auc t ion bid a c co rd ing to day - to -day va r ia t ions in wo r ld prices. Du r ing the per iod Ma rch 15-October 31, 1966, buyers of large quantities of long-staple cotton would qu a l i fy for a rebate. April 6. Travel allowances for tourism and certain other purposes, except for travel to the United A rab Repub l ic, could no longer be authorized by commercial banks; application for such allowances had to be made to the Bank of Sudan. The basic travel allowance was reduced f rom LSd 100 an adu l t, and LSd 25 a child, annually, to LSd 100 an adult, and LSd 25 a child, every other year. May 4- A pre l im inary agreement on the establishment of an East A f r i c an Economic Community was signed by Bu rund i, E th iop ia, Kenya, Ma law i, Mau r i t ius, Tanzan ia, Uganda, and Zambia. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. May. Ba r ter of cotton for specified imports was permitted in "com- bination deals." June 28. Agreement was reached with Ceylon to the effect that Sudanese licensing of Ceylonese tea would be related to Ceylonese purchases of Sudanese cotton. July 26. Imports were severely restricted. All imports against pay- ment in convertible currencies, inc lud ing imports of goods on the open general license list, required individual licensing or registration by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, and only the Bank of Sudan could validate licenses or registration forms related to such imports; con- tracts could not be concluded before validation had taken place. Import licenses would not, for the time being, be issued for other than essential goods, except in trade with Ma in land China and countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements were in fo rce; 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN licenses or registration fo rms for imports f rom such countries could still be va l ida ted by au tho r ized banks. July 27. The Bank of Sudan requested importers ho ld ing import licenses or reg is t ra t ion f o rms not prev ious ly va l ida ted to submit them to an au tho r ized bank, and the Bank reminded importers that licenses and registration fo rms had to be validated by an authorized bank be fo re they could enter into any import commitments. August 29. The Gez ira Board's minimum reserve prices for cotton were reduced s ign if ican t ly. A 50 per cent rebate f rom export duty was gran ted for cotton exports that took place between August 30 and December 31, 1966; the rebate was subsequently extended to Febru- ary 28, 1967. Expor ts of co t ton under "combination deals" or compen- sa t ion t ransac t ions wou ld no longer be au tho r ized. The trade agree- ments w i th socialist coun tr ies wou ld be ma in ta ined but would be opera ted so as not to i n t e r f e re w i th the open and competitive selling of Sudanese cotton in wo r ld markets. September 20. An increase in customs duties on certain commodities and the in t roduc t ion of an import su rcha rge of 5 per cent ad valorem on all goods were announced by the Minister of Finance. October 1. A fo re ign exchange budget for the period July 1966 to June 1967 went into e f fec t. October 15. The stamp duties on fore ign exchange remittances and bills of exchange (see Ma rch 1, above) were abolished. New stamp duties were in t rodu c ed on the application fo rms for remittances in respect of impo r ts and p ro f i ts and for rem i t tances for any other pur- poses; these du t ies were LSd 1, LSd 5, and LSd 0.25, respectively. Exempt were rem i t tances for educa t ional purposes or for medical treatment and government remittances. October 22. It was announced that the July import restrictions wou ld not apply to countries with which trade agreements or payments agreements were in fo rce, nor to goods that on July 18, 1966 had a lready been shipped or for which on that date a letter of credit had already been opened. November 15. The Ministry of Commerce and Supply announced that import restrictions were being relaxed and that import licenses and registration fo rms would be issued up to the value of average imports in previous years. All open general licenses hitherto granted were revoked; the open general license list was replaced by a new one comprising 116 types of commodities, about 40 per cent of the items in the old list. Importers were requested to submit to the Ministry of Commerce, not later than December 15, 1966, applications for 561 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN imports representing their requirements for the first three months of 1967. Imports would be permitted from all sources except Hong Kong, Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica. Each specific import license must, within 30 days f rom the date of issue, be submitted to the Bank of Sudan (or an authorized bank for imports f rom Mainland China and countries with which the Sudan had trade or payments agreements) to be validated, accompanied by documents evidencing that the importer had made commitments to import the goods specified in the license; licenses not validated within 30 days would be con- sidered canceled. November 24. Agreement was reached with the United Arab Republic to increase trade in both directions. Each side agreed to obtain its requirements basically from the partner country. December 27. Modifications to the new import procedures were announced. Registration forms could be submitted to the Ministry of Commerce and Supply at all times. The issue of an import license or the acceptance of a registration fo rm implied that foreign currency for the imports concerned had been allocated; the Bank of Sudan would release the exchange, provided that evidence of import orders was submitted within 30 days of the issue of the license or the acceptance of the registration fo rm. Proprietors of industries who wished to import raw materials not included in the open general license list could submit applications to the Ministry of Industry and Mining, which would re fer initially approved applications to the Ministry of Commerce and Supply for final approval. 562 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder or Sur. f. 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in convertible currencies;1 payments to and f rom the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Payments to and from the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Nether- lands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold accounts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; permitted debits and credits are subject in certain cases to a specific or general license. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few com- modities are prohibited f rom all sources for protective reasons. Some commodities are subject to import quotas; other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The com- mercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising ^n the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 563 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, e t c . ); up to Sur. f. 300 a year f rom each remitter in respect of g i f ts, sub ject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any benef ic iary's receipt of g i f ts f r om Surinam res iden ts; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a mon th for the support of the remitter's own f am i ly in the Ne ther lands Antilles or the Ne ther lands ( f am i ly remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon app l ica t ion ). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destination. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income f rom other investments, and payments of moderate amoun ts for amo r t iza t ion of loans or deprec ia t ion of direct investments, may be made if an app l ica- tion supported by an aud i tor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Control Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports of local produc ts do not require licenses, provided that the exporter under takes to surrender the proceeds w i th in six mon ths to an au tho r ized bank. A cer ta in type of local timber used in the m anu f a c tu re of plywood and par t ic le board may be exported only in special circumstances. All re-exports and barter exports require a license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f r om invisibles must be su r rende red to an au tho r ized bank. Trave lers may b r ing in fo r e ign cu r rency w i t h o ut l im i t, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic c u r r e n c y; resident trave lers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 pro- vides for the t rans fer abroad of cap i tal proceeds f r om the sale to resi- dents or the l iqu ida t ion of f u l ly or par t ly fo re ign -owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. It also provides for the t r an s f er of prof i ts. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private fore ign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be t rans fe r red within a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. 564 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Licenses are granted on application for transfers abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fur ther annual transfers above the maximum of Sur. f. 25,000 are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets belonging to departing persons, including emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase in specified countries Surinam corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. Transfers for invest- ment in foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Changes during 1966 September 1. Nonresidents required permission to sell specified Surinam corporate shares ab road; they could still export these securities freely to specified countries. 565 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona or SKr 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U.S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the marginal rates, namely, SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of marginal rates for 13 currencies,1 based upon the above marginal rates for the U.S. dollar and the limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buying and selling rates, the average of which must lie within the established marginal limits. The difference between the buying and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, below). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents fo rwa rd exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude forward transactions with other authorized banks or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 566 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.2 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must be made by credit- ing kroner to a Special Account related to that country. Receipts f rom Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kroner through the Special Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Payments to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kronor to any nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Receipts from other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts are held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany. Regular Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to countries 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alternates are appointed by the Government; the other members and their alter- nates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 567 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN other than Eastern Germany by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies or with transfers f rom other Regular Accounts may not result in the crea- tion of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been resi- dents of Sweden but who became nonresidents after emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, and proceeds f rom sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his f am i l y; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other off ic ial charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kroner and of real estate; and gifts to, and the sup- port o f, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts 3 are in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with trans- fers f rom abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or f rom other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kroner in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the main exception of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are f ree f rom quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin 3 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies, and be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pacific islands under U.S. control, and (2) Albania, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports f rom coun- tries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports f rom Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued free ly, except for a few specified commodities. Technically, the liberali- zation of agr icu l tural commodities is governed by "positive" liberaliza- tion lists; for other commodities, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are included in two "negative" lists.4 Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of wh ich are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the fo rma l i ty of presen t ing an import license. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize fore ign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles Exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 500 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out f ree ly up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of paymen t; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agen- cies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and fo re ign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, without * With effect f rom February 20, 1967, imports of specified textiles originating in the Republic of Korea that previously were liberalized required a specific license. 569 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are exempt f rom license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); all exports to Eastern Germany, however, require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish author- ized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlimited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted. Residents may, on applica- tion, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, on application, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigration), he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to non- residents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortiza- tion of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; gifts; and inheri- tances. Residents can accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits, but in principle borrowing abroad to finance economic activity in Sweden is not currently authorized. The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Swedish importers also can be 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. In this context, authorized banks are upon application per- mitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through foreign borrowing in a corresponding amount. Permission for the financing of the afore- mentioned export and import transactions requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market was considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which normally is given. Liquidation of such investments and the trans- fer of proceeds, including appreciation, require authorization, which always is given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell foreign securities to non- residents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted unless the purchase is made with proceeds from the sale by the purchaser to a nonresident of other foreign securities expressed in foreign currencies (switching), and is made within six months of that sale. Residents may buy foreign securities from other residents without authorization. Residents are permitted to purchase abroad Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be pro- duced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The author- ized banks and stockbrokers may, under general authorization, handle such purchases without limitation. They may also handle purchases by nonresidents of Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from, and the date of the sale to, the foreign party. 571 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Changes during 1966 April 1. A protocol to the trade agreement with Poland was signed which provided for the liberalization of a number of additional com- modities when originating in Poland. April 20. The Sveriges Riksbank announced that it would regard all payments for insurance premiums as current payments. April 20. Certain exchange control regulations applicable to foreign securities were extended also to Swedish securities denominated in foreign currency. December 31. With minor exceptions, the industrial free trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association went into effect. 572 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND l Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is established at 6% io (=0.20322. . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a f ree market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 30, 1966 was Sw F 4.3266 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with eight countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments with seven countries or monetary a r e a s ;2 Switzerland also controls its payments with one other.3 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in the United Arab Republic, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated free ly in Switzerland at rates deter- mined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Prin- cipality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Prin- cipality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory.4 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 8 Eastern Germany, including East Berlin. 4 For purposes of capital control, however, certain juridical persons or companies domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are considered as nonresidents. 573 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the execu- tive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the opera- tive part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss f rancs; however, certain settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds through a special account maintained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Czech- oslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above—may be transferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses will not be granted in excess of the normal volume of imports in 1964 or 1965. With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespec- tive of their origin are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made freely through the free market. 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f r e e ly; however, payments to Eastern Germany (including East Berlin) and countries with which Switzerland has bilateral payments agreements are controlled. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regula- tions. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss f rancs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled pay- ments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and f rom other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 5 million each, which require permission. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Changes during 1966 January 1. With certain exceptions, Liechtenstein was assimilated with Swiss territory for the purpose of the Swiss regulations concerning the treatment of foreign funds.5 The following residents of Liechtenstein were no longer considered as nonresidents: (1) physical persons domi- ciled in the Principality and acting on their own beha l f; (2) banks 5 Funds owned (1) by physical persons of foreign nationality domiciled in a country outside Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, (2) by juridical persons or companies having their principal office in a country outside Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, or (3) by certain juridical persons or companies domiciled in Liechtenstein. 575 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND having their principal office in Liechtenstein; and (3) all other ju r id i c al persons or companies domiciled in the Principality and acting on their own beha l f, provided that they submitted a certificate issued by the competent Liechtenstein Government agency to the effect that they were considered Liechtenstein residents in the sense of Liechtenstein's legislation of June 16, 1965 concerning financial markets and credit. The following ju r id ical persons or companies domiciled in Liechten- stein continued to be considered as nonresidents: (1) those controlled by physical or ju r id ical persons domiciled outside Liechtenstein or Switzerland; (2) those financed ma in ly by nonresidents; (3) those appearing to favor nonresidents; and (4) those not having a commer- cial or industrial establishment in the Principality. January 1. Swiss nationals residing abroad no longer required permis- sion to purchase real estate in Switzerland. January 28. The Federal Council decided that the 3 per cent coupon tax on interest and dividends would be abolished at the end of the yea r; at the same time, the withholding tax on capital earnings would be raised f rom 27 to 30 per cent. March 16. The validity of the Credit Decree of 1964 was extended to March 17,1967. April 1. The prohibitions were l i f ted on the investment of foreign funds in new public bond issues of Swiss mortgage institutions and cantonal and local banks and in issues of fede ral housing bonds. Furthermore, real estate investment funds could sell certificates to foreigners up to a total amount of 6 per cent of 'the f u n d s' net assets on December 31,1965. April 1. The Swiss National Bank authorized Swiss banks to partici- pate in certain new loan issues denominated in foreign currencies and offered for pub l ic subscription abroad. In August, a Swiss bank ing consortium was established to participate in Euro-issues. The Swiss banks' share must be placed in Switzerland without recourse to public advertising, and 50 per cent at least must be p laced with foreign customers. An amount equivalent to US$10 million was indicated as a guideline for an upper limit to the Swiss portion of each loan. The Swiss tax on security issues was payable on the Swiss portion only. April 27. It was announced that the restrictions on imports of mutton and lamb were being relaxed, and that these imports would gradua l ly be liberalized. June 23. The remaining prohibitions were l if ted on the investment of foreign funds in Swiss bonds ( inc lud ing med ium- term certificates of deposit, so-called bank bonds or bons de caisse]. 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND August 1. Switzerland became a fu ll contracting party to the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade; it had provisionally acceded to the agreement on November 22,1958. October 1. It was announced that the import of cattle would be permitted only in exceptional circumstances. October 17. The remaining prohibitions on the investment of foreign funds in Switzerland were l i f ted; such funds could again be freely invested in Swiss shares, investment trust certificates, mortgages, and real estate (provided that prior approval by the canton concerned was obtained for any purchases of real estate). The existing restrictions on the payment of interest on foreign funds credited to accounts in Swiss f rancs were maintained. The regulations obliging the banks to offset any net addition to Swiss f r a nc foreign deposits in Swiss banks through money exports or payments to the Swiss National Bank also remained in force. Investment in real estate by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad continued to require individual approval in accordance with the decree of March 23, 1961 (as revised on September 30,1965). December 23. Imports of milk were further restricted. December 27. The Federal Council decided that the agreement between the Swiss National Bank and the other f inanc ial institutions relating to the restriction of credit would no longer be legally binding a f ter the end of the year. The Swiss National Bank announced that the agreement would expire at that time. Instead, it provided the banks with guidelines concerning the amount of credit expansion that was considered economically jus t if iab le for 1967. The Swiss National Bank stated its intention of concluding an agreement with the large and medium-sized banks on the monthly submission of balance sheets showing a breakdown of the principal assets and liabilities into domestic and foreign items. Af ter the expiration of the agreement relating to foreign funds (Ma rch 17,1967), banks would again be able to pay interest on foreign f u n ds held in Swiss f r a nc accounts, and they would no longer have to offset any net addition to foreign deposits. December 30. The Federal Council decided to liberalize the import of sheep, mutton, and lamb with effect from January 1, 1967; importers would be required to purchase all supplies offered by domestic pro- ducers. December 31. With minor exceptions, the industrial free trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association went into effect. 577 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by Syria with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" market with a fluctuating rate. The official rates are LS 3.80 buying, and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1. The free market rates on December 30,1966 were LS 4.12 buying, and LS 4.16 selling, per US$1. The supply in the off ic ial market consists mainly of the proceeds of ma jor exports and of oil royalties received by the Government. The official market rate applies to all m a jor expor ts ;x to imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital equipment for Syrian industries; to invisibles related to trade settled through the official market, remittances for study abroad, and remittances for servicing government debt; and to capital transactions by the Government. The free market rate applies to all other transactions, including all mer- chanting trade and all imports by parcel post. Moreover, importers with bills overdue for any period of time are permitted to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. The authorized commercial banks charge a commission of %0 °f 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, usually on the suggestions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general directives of the Council on Money and Credit. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for import payments, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. 1 Crude petroleum, mineral oils, asphalt, raw and tanned leather, wood, iron and steel scrap, copper scrap, cotton yarn, wheat, barley, corn millet, chick peas, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, cotton oil, cottonseed, cotton cake, sorghum, corn, sesame, tobacco, wheat flour, oleaginous grains and fruits, olive oil, peanut oil, linseed oil, sugar, and certain other agricultural products. 578 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The usual requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which Syria has bilateral payments agreements2 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,3 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds f rom exports to neighboring countries may be obtained in the currencies of those countries. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in foreign curren- cies, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital. Trans- fers from these accounts are made freely. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of non-Syrians in neighboring countries who do not reside permanently in Syria. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel or Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and tractors) are only imported by a state trading agency, the Import and Export Company of the Public Sector (SIMEX) or, for their own account, by certain official agencies. Imports are divided into three main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises some 60 tariff items—mostly goods that are produced domestically, including 2 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Ceylon, Mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Spain, United Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 8 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Egyptian pounds, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and UJ3. dollars. 4 Residents are denned as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in Syria for more than a year. 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC some textile produc ts ;5 (2) imports on a Restrictive List, which com- prises some 160 tariff items of less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and which are freely authorized. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm con- ducting a business established outside Syria; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Permitted imports, except those made by SIMEX, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders; licenses are granted freely without any discrimination as to country of origin or quantitative restriction. The licenses are required mainly for statistical purposes. SIMEX may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. Goods included in the Restrictive List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special individual license from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Restrictive or Prohibited Lists) from Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arab ia, and the United Arab Republic are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of Syria with some of these countries. These imports include agricul- tural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Imports from other countries with which Syria has bilateral agreements are not subject to any preferential treatment. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the ta r i f f, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (about 140 tariff items can be imported only through Syrian ha rbo rs ), and (6) an ocean tax of %0 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. 5 On January 9, 1967, the importation of some 20 further tariff items was suspended. 580 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange licenses are required to make import payments. Payment for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time d ra f ts, bills for collection, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer submits to the authorized commercial bank the import license and the invoice which, in turn, are submitted by the bank to the Exchange Office for approval; this is granted according to the availability of exchange. Import licenses prescribe which exchange market must be used; when a documentary letter of credit is opened, the Exchange Office has the authority to prescribe the use of f ree market exchange even when the import license specifies payment through the official market. Af ter approval is granted, the commercial banks open the letters of credit or accept the bills for collection. Specified imports, mainly essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital goods for Syrian industries, may be financed through the official market; all others must be financed through the free market. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided promptly, while exchange for the latter is granted a f ter a delay of several months. The issuance of authorizations for the purchase of free market exchange for certain categories of nonessential imports is delayed for periods up to 75 days. However, importers with overdue bills are permitted, subject to approval by the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, to purchase exchange in the parallel market to settle their obligations. A limited group of essential imports is subject to a 15 per cent advance deposit; other imports, except imports of luxury goods, are subject to a 40 per cent advance deposit; luxury imports require a 70 per cent advance deposit. The advance deposit is refunded when pay- ment is made for the import. The following are exempt f rom the advance import deposit requirements: imports financed with suppliers' credit for at least one yea r; all fruits and vegetables; certain types of livestock; raw materials and other essential goods; imports made by SIMEX; imports financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; goods imported by firms engaged in development projects in the Syrian Arab Republic; reimported goods; goods imported in transit that are to be re-exported; imports by diplomatic or consular establishments and UN agencies; samples; and g if ts without commercial value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate, for servicing government debt, and for study abroad may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonresident intermediaries are nontransferable and payable in Syrian pounds only. The insurance 581 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All other payments for invisibles must be made through the free market. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 50 a trip ; for travel to other Arab countries and Turkey, the equivalent of £ stg. 50 a trip ; and for travel to other coun- tries, the equivalent of £ stg. 125 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Fixed alloca- tions at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities ; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatria- tion commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to Syria and surrender them in the appropriate exchange market. The proceeds of all ma jor exports (see footnote 1) must be surren- dered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale in the free market. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12% per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. 582 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expendi- tures of oil companies (except royalties), may be sold in the free market. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange are free for residents and nonresidents and may be effected through the free market. Exports of capital require the approval of the Exchange Off ice; if approved, they must be effected through the free market. Changes during 1966 January 1. The import of specified commodities f rom, and the export of specified other commodities to, the member countries of the Arab Common Market was liberalized in accordance with Decree No. 780 of December 19,1965. January 6. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Cuba; the agreement took effect on September 3,1966. February 12. The export tax on cotton of 20 piastres a kilo was replaced by a 12% per cent ad valorem tax. March 15. Decree No. 183 established that the proceeds from exports of livestock to most Arab countries and neighboring countries had to be surrendered at the f ree market rate. March 15. Decree No. 184 established, with effect retroactively f rom January 11, 1965, that exchange at the official rate could only be sold for the fo l low ing: (1) official requirements; (2) all import payments c.i.f., except those to be financed in the f ree market by decision of the Ministry of Economy and those considered to have been already settled; (3) freight on exports subject to surrender of exchange pro- ceeds; (4) student expenses up to the established allocations, with any excess amount to be financed, subject to prior exchange control approval, in the free market; (5) the foreign currency portion of certain foreign experts' salaries; and (6) any other transactions approved by the Ministry of Economy. May 12. Woolen yarns and textiles were moved to the Restrictive List. 583 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC May 14. The exchange allowances for foreign travel by residents were reduced. May 16. A Law on Economic Crimes was promulgated. Heavy retroactive penalties were applied to capital flight; an amnesty was declared for capital repatriated within six months. May 31. Exports to and imports f rom Rhodesia were prohibited. June 8. A new bilateral payments agreement providing for settlement of most transactions through bilateral accounts was signed with the United A rab Republic; previously, only settlements in respect of transactions concluded prior to October 1961 were channeled through bilateral accounts. June 12. A long-term trade agreement and an economic and technical cooperation agreement were signed with Bulgaria. All payments were to be effected in convertible currencies; repayments and interest on a Bulgarian development credit, however, would take place through exports of Syrian goods to Bulgaria. July. The requirement was discontinued that importers not receiving suppliers' credit of six months or more must cover 25-50 per cent of their exchange requirements in the free market. July 24. Decree No. 549 prohibited the import of specified fabr ics of wool or fine animal hair, yarn of synthetic fibers, and woven fabr ics of synthetic fibers. September 10. Legislative Decree No. 116 established that all exports of products of state-owned companies had to be effected through official agencies. These would take over all activities of SIMEX. Implementing regulations were to be issued at a later date. September 27. New trade and payments arrangements with Ceylon were agreed, under which the Syrian Arab Republic would resume imports of Ceylonese tea. October 18. Decree No. 795 listed the commodities that could, with effect f rom January 1, 1967, be imported freely and without an import license from member countries of the Arab Common Market, and those commodities that could f rom that date freely and without an export license be exported to those countries. November 10. Decrees Nos. 853 and 854 of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade reorganized the exchange market. The distribution of trade between the official market and the free market was organized entirely on a commodity basis, rather than, as previously, on a com- bined regional and commodity basis. The proceeds of all ma jor exports had to be surrendered at the off ic ial market rate. Imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and industrial equipment for 584 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Syrian industries would be paid for with exchange purchased in the official market. Also to be settled at the off ic ial market rate were invisibles related to trade settled through the official market, remit- tances for study abroad, remittances for servicing government debt, and governmental capital transactions. All other transactions would take place in the free market; these included all merchanting trade (transit trade) and all imports by parcel post. Repatriation commit- ments were required for all private exports. 585 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. The Tanzania shilling is at par with the East A f r ican shilling issued by the East A f r ican Currency Board, which is being withdrawn f rom circulation. In transactions with authorized banks, the Bank of Tanzania stands ready to issue Tanzania shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Tanzania shillings; its buying and selling rates for sterling in such transactions d iffer f rom parity by %2 and %6 per cent, respectively. In transactions with the public, the authorized banks buy and sell sterling at rates d iffer ing f rom parity by %6 and % per cent, respectively. The Bank of Tanzania deals with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings against Tanzania shillings at p a r; the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par. Banks in Tanzania base their rates for currencies other than sterling, Kenya shillings, and Uganda shillings on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control The Treasury is in charge of exchange control but has delegated its administration to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving nor- mal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Payments from Tanzania to Kenya and Uganda are f ree of restrictions. On the mainland, import and export control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications should be sub- mitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for some commodi- ties require the endorsement of a state trading agency, i.e., the Coopera- tive Supply Association of Tanganyika (COS AT A ), the International Trading and Credit Company of Tanganyika (INTRATA), or the National Agricultural Products Board (NAPB). Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; certain imports are made by state trading agencies (B izan je and the Zanzibar State Trad- ing Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; 586 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA all settlements with Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzania shillings. Payments to residents of coun- tries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Tan- zania or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts f rom such coun- tries must be obtained in Tanzania shillings f rom a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings to the credit of an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appro- priate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings f rom an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other speci- fied currency* that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited free ly with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Tanzanian residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East Afr ican shillings) by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tanzanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzania, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is tempo- rarily resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appro- priate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may aThe specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and East African shillings. 587 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tan- zania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzania of any foreign currency or gold f rom an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tan- zania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers f rom Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies f rom authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Tan- zania of specified bonds and shares issued in Tanzan ia ;2 the redemp- tion proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Some goods are imported by state trading agencies only. Most imports f rom Kenya and Uganda (the Schedule I countries) are unre- stricted, but some 100 commodities or groups of commodities imported f rom these countries require a specific license. The import of certain additional items is restricted from Kenya only. Specific import licenses are required for some 90 commodities or groups of commodities f rom Schedule II countries, i.e., Commonwealth countries, GATT countries except Japan, and countries with which bilateral trade agreements are 2 The securities must be payable in East African or Tanzania shillings and must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 588 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA in fo r c e ;3 other goods f rom these countries may be imported without licenses. All imports from Japan and f rom countries that are not mem- bers of the GATT require a specific license. All imports to the main- land f rom Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar (Zanzibar applies virtually no restrictions to imports). All imports from South A f r ica, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese goods are not licensed unless they are considered to assist the country's industrial development or are otherwise regarded as beneficial. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evi- dence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are normally approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories4 is T Sh 5,000 a person a year for persons aged 12 or older. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda bank- notes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Uganda may take out up to T Sh 250 in such notes and East A f r ican shilling notes and up to the equivalent of T Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Nonresident trav- elers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Kenya and Uganda who come to work under contract in Tanzania may during the first four years of their stay in Tanzania remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary (but, unless expressly authorized, not more than T Sh 3,000 a month) to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. 8 The latter are Bulgaria, Burundi, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, India, North Korea, Poland, United Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 4 Tanzania's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 589 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica, Portugal, all Portuguese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanz ibar are sold abroad by the Zanz ibar State Trading Corporation. Export proceeds must be collected within six months f rom the date of exportation and those in specified currencies must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East A f r ican shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years im- mediately prior to the date of application may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 100,000 if they take up residence in a country outside the Sterling Area, or up to the equivalent of T Sh 100,000 plus subsequent annual transfers of the equivalent of T Sh 40,000 if taking up residence in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Tanzanian securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable upon maturity of the securi- ties but not less than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tan- zan ia; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Exchange Control Ordinance, which in normal circumstances is given freely, or a certifi- cate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordi- nance. 590 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities f rom residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the pro- ceeds on maturity. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. All loans or overdrafts to nonresidents or to nonresident- controlled bodies in any of the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval. Changes during 1966 January 10. Zanzibar established Bizanye, a state trading agency authorized to import and sell wholesale any commodity that the Min- ister of Trade designated as controlled. January 28. A trade agreement of the most-favored-nation type was signed with India and entered into force provisionally. Trade would be settled in convertible currencies. It would be the endeavor of both Governments to expand trade to specified amounts. February 1. Imports of many petroleum products from Schedule II countries and from Kenya and Uganda were made subject to individual licensing. February 4- The transfer of pensions to beneficiaries resident in Rhodesia was suspended. February 10. The authorized banks were reminded that exchange granted to pay insurance premiums should not be utilized for payments under schemes combining insurance with investment in mutual funds, unit trusts, etc. April 16. The administration of exchange control was delegated to the Bank of Tanzania. April 29. The import of specified textiles f rom Schedule II countries and f rom Kenya and Uganda was made subject to individual licensing; applications for import licenses must be submitted to COSATA. May 4. Tanzania and seven other East Afr ican countries (Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Uganda, and Zambia) signed a preliminary agreement on the establishment of an East A f r ican Eco- nomic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. June 8. Exchange allowances for educational purposes could be approved by authorized banks only in respect of residents of Tanzania. 591 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA June 14- The central bank, the Bank of Tanzania, started operations. June 14. The Bank of Tanzania began to issue banknotes denomi- nated in Tanzania shillings. The new currency would gradually replace the East A f r ican shilling at par. The latter would remain legal tender in Tanzania until fur ther notice. June 26. Remittances to Sterling Area countries by certain govern- ment officers, up to the total amount of their salaries, were f reed from restriction. June 27. The granting of any loan or overdraft facility to be made available or renewed in Tanzania was made subject to approval in all cases where the debtor was not a resident of the Scheduled Territories or was a body corporate resident in the Scheduled Territories but con- trolled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories. The granting of any discount facilities remained free. July 4- The basic travel allowance for children was reduced f rom T Sh 5,000 to T Sh 2,500 per annum a person for children between the ages of 3 and 12; the allowance was discontinued for children under 3 years of age. August 1. The Bank of Tanzania took over the direct administration of exchange control in Zanzibar. Prior to that date, the Zanzibar Min- istry of Finance had administered exchange control under delegation f rom the Union Treasury. August 4- An initial par value for the Tanzania shilling of T Sh 7.14286 = US$1 was established with the International Monetary Fund. October 20. Restrictions on imports from Japan were eased. October. A trade agreement was signed with North Korea. December 1. The amount of banknotes denominated in Kenya shil- lings, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and East A f r ican shillings which travelers going outside the Scheduled Territories could take with them was reduced f rom T Sh 500 to T Sh 250. 592 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht or B 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions). As at December 31,1966, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.62 buying, and B 20.67 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.60 buying, and B 20.75 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are sub- ject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, t rans fe rs of baht to and f rom non- resident accounts require approva l; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of fore ign currency and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on T rans fe rab le Accounts are convertible into fore ign currency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand. 593 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported free ly; but import licenses are required for some ten listed commodities, and the import of certain other listed items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in Mainland China are prohibited. Imports of Rhodesian origin require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thai- land, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$280 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through customs; mili- tary equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank; exchange is provided freely. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand.1 Apart f rom foreign travel, family mainte- nance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized dealers are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel, family remittances, and study abroad, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain maximum limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances of £ stg. 225 or US$630, or £14 5s. 9d. or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, additional foreign exchange may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. Amounts above these limits are approved ^ •With effect from January 18, 1967, the Bank no longer required, in order to prevent any undue impact on the exchange market, that large amounts of profits be remitted in installments. 594 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of tin ore are prohibited and all exports to Rhodesia require an individual license; exports of rice are temporarily suspended. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destina- t i o n ;2 all others may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of char- coal or wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 5,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be col- lected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 3 months after the date of export. Tourists require a "certifi- cate of exportation" to take out articles other than personal effects with a total value in excess of B 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers entering through the port of Bangkok may bring in foreign currency not exceeding the equivalent of US$1,120 or £ stg. 400, and those entering through other ports, the equivalent of US$560 or £ stg. 200; the equivalent of US$1,120 or £ stg. 400 is applicable to a family traveling on the same passport, irrespective of the port of entry. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on l ife insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign 2 Gold, platinum, precious stones, certain fertilizers, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, maize, rice and rice products, raw sugar, tin ores, certain other minerals, rubber, brass and copper in certain forms, radioactive materials, and salt exported by sea. 595 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND exchange f rom inward capital movements must be sold to an author- ized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferen- tial treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of February 10, 1962; this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case. When the amount to be repatriated is large, the applicant may be required to effect the transfer in installments in order to prevent a disturbance of the exchange market. Changes during 1966 January 8. Import control on some 30 items was removed. January 28. Import control was removed f rom rubber tires and tubes with weight not exceeding 15 kilograms. Export control on ducks' eggs, hens' eggs, chickens, and all except specifically listed animals was removed. March 15. Control on export of precious stones and gold and platinum ornaments was relaxed. March 17. New regulations governing the importation of foreign currency were introduced. The changes included an increase in the amount of foreign currency travelers entering through the port of Bangkok were permitted to bring into Thailand f rom the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 to the equivalent of US$1,120 or £ stg. 400 or, for travelers entering through other ports, from the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 to US$560 or £ stg. 200; for a fam i ly traveling on the same passport, the increase was f rom the equivalent of US$1,000 or £ stg. 360 to US$1,120 or £ stg. 400, irrespective of the port of entry. March 23. Export control was imposed on raw sugar. April 14. Exports to Rhodesia and imports shipped from or originat- ing in Rhodesia were made subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. April 22. Rice exporters were not allowed to sell more than 200 metric tons of glutinous rice for each shipment. The export of glutinous rice grit was permitted only when the exporter was willing to pay the rice export premium at the same rate as for broken glutinous rice. May 26. The Exchange Equalization Fund reduced its selling rate for U.S. dollars f rom B 20.75 to B 20.70 per U.S. dollar and its buying rate f rom B 20.70 to B 20.675 per U.S. dollar. June 29. Export control was imposed on brass and copper in the fo rm of block, bar, sheet, scrap or in any other form, but excluding finished goods or articles in normal use. 596 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND July 21. The value of goods imported or exported which can be cleared through the Bangkok customs without a certificate of payment or certificate of exportation was raised f rom B 3,000 to B 5,000. July 21. A certificate of exportation was no longer required for precious stones and gold and platinum ornaments not exceeding B 10,000 when taken out of Thailand by tourists. August 1. Import duties and all other taxes on imported goods had to be paid prior to their release f rom customs. August 8. Rice exporters were required to sell to the Government at fixed prices 10 per cent of their approved exports. August 19. The Exchange Equalization Fund reduced its selling rate for U.S. dollars from B 20.70 to B 20.67 per U.S. dollar and its buying rate f rom B 20.675 to B 20.62 per U.S. dollar. September 1. Exports of rice not exceeding 500 tons no longer required prior approval. September 28. Import control on some 15 items was removed because import duties thereon had recently been raised to a level deemed to give adequate protection for local industry. October 14. The existing import controls were summarized by the publication of a list of prohibited imports and a list of commodities subject to individual import license. November 7. The issuance of licenses for exports of rice was sus- pended. 597 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. A tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on all authorizations issued by the Exchange Office for payments in excess of CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except payments of the Government. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses are approved by the Exchange Office, which checks the financing and other particulars. Prescription of Currency Togo is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from all other countries require individual licenses. CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program wh ich is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a jo int French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources are granted. The only import quota is one for printed piece goods of Japanese origin. There are no formal import f r ee lists. Import licenses entitle the importer to acquire the amount and kind of fore ign exchange specified in the license, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, but as a rule this is given on presentation of proper supporting documents. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties may be remitted abroad, subject to supervision. Payments for many other categories of invisibles are also subject to supervision to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. An allowance of up to CFAF 150,000 a person a year in currencies other than those of the French Franc Area may be made available automatically to residents by the authorized banks for any trip outside that A rea; requests for additional amounts are granted liberally by the Exchange Office. Family remittances may be made up to CFAF 35,000 a month, and beneficiary payments in respect of educational expenses are permitted free ly. Representation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds from EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Foreign nationals employed in Togo may remit to the country of their nationality their fu ll basic salary. Travelers to other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union 2 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other coun- tries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to 2 The West African Monetary Union comprises Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 599 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in bankno tes or coins up to F 1,000 in French f rancs, or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA f r an c s, or up to the equ iva lent of F 750 in notes and coins denom ina ted in any other French Franc Area currency; they may also take with them any non-French Franc Area currency that they have retained f rom previous trips, up to the equivalent of F 500. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports to French Franc Area countries may be retained by exporters; export proceeds in currencies of countries out- side the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts, which may be f ree ly used by the exporters themselves for any payment outside the French Franc Area for which a general or a special license has been issued. The proportions of export proceeds that may be credited to EFAC accounts are 15 per cent for exports to Canada and the United States and 11 per cent for exports to other countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities must be collected promptly, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt.3 Travelers from other countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. 8 For payment of insurance claims, the period is three months. 600 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Capital Cap i tal movements between Togo and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con tro l; those between Togo and all other coun- tries require approval. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domes- tic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption f rom import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges, and also treatment of the transfer of proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of old fore ign investments, are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Changes during 1966 January 1. The basic allowance for travel outside the French Franc Area was reduced f rom CFAF 250,000 a person a trip to CFAF 150,000 a person a year. February 1. The issuance of licenses for imports from Japan was resumed. 601 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.518391 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar or TT$1.71429 = US$1. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar cir- culates concurrently with the East Caribbean dollar, with which it is at par but which is not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = fl.1 This corresponds to a relationship to the U.S. dollar of about ECS1.71 = US$1. All exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = £1 and EC$4.80 = £1 and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of sight drafts, and of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respec- tively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers. The result is a selling rate of TT$4.812 or EC$4.812 per £1, and a buying rate of TT$4.779 or EC$4.779 per £1, for sight drafts. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their quo- tations in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or minus the above commissions. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Ministry of Finance through its Exchange Control Division; for payments for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds from exports, by the Customs and Excise Department. For payments relating to certain specified invisibles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 1 The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Carib- bean Currency Authority, pursuant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. (The West Indian dollar, which was issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board in Barbados, Guyana, Leeward Islands, Windward Islands, and Trinidad and Tobago, had a fixed relationship to sterling of WI$4.80 = £1.) The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary unit of Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Christopher- Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent; there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. 602 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign exchange 2 and for control over both current and capital trans- actions. No control is at present exercised over transfers of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area, but all payments and transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or to an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any foreign currency. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency.3 Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for non- residents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currency to an author- 2 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments of foreign currency, permission is granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. 3 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 603 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for pur- chases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale by a non- resident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Permission may be given for these balances to be transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom, where their disposal would be subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports from other countries are f ree of quantitative restriction. For import control pur- poses, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Soviet countries and Ma in land China,4 and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom. The import regulations include prohibition, state trading, individual licensing, and open general license. (1) The fo l low ing imports are prohibited or are subject to stringent control: matches manu fac tu red locally under a monopoly granted by the Government to a private company, coffee and cocoa beans, and beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans. Firearms, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly con- trolled for security and health reasons. (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported f rom Guyana and Surinam under government contracts, at agreed prices.5 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an individual license or an open 4 These are listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, No r th Korea, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed f rom countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 604 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries f rom which the commodities are imported. (a) Imports from Soviet countries and Mainland China. All imports f rom these countries require a specific license. Licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia. For imports f rom these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises about 300 tar iff items. Licenses for these items are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, provided that domestic industry is unable to supply the commodity in question. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports f rom countries other than Soviet countries or Ma in land China, no discrimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved. Payments for all imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthor- ized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted freely. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes, East Caribbean currency notes, and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (£250) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trini- dad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. 605 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are per- mitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in currencies other than East Caribbean dollars must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in currencies other than East Caribbean dollars, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or pounds sterling must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies ope- rating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for foreign exchange receipts and expenditures which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago cur- rency notes, East Caribbean currency notes, and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers f rom Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area are permitted freely, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are closely regulated. However, repayment of com- mercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances (in limited amounts), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred 606 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, a b o v e ); however, nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f ter Janua ry 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may t rans fer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the f u ll proceeds of sale are received in fo re ign currency or sterling f rom an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested abroad in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable within five years f rom the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective fore ign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed pro ject must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of the foreign currency (not necessarily the original foreign currency of investment), or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be jus t if ied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and fore ign investment in secondary industry. This law provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commercial scale. Every pioneer manufac turer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. 607 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO The proceeds realized f rom part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (a) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. Changes during 1966 During the year the import of a number of additional commodities became subject to individual import license; only the principal items affected are shown below. February 1. Imports of many types of paper and certain types of shirts required a specific license. April 7. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were designated as speci- fied currencies. May 5. Imports of wheat flour required a specific license. June 20. Trinidad and Tobago ceased invoking Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. July 18. Various types of domestic refrigerators required a specific import license. September 27. A withholding tax was imposed on dividends, interest, and other income arising in Trinidad and Tobago when paid to a non- resident. The rate of tax was 30 per cent, unless modified by a double taxation agreement. Such agreements were concluded with Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. October 13. A new open general license for imports replaced that of May 5, 1960, and all amendments thereto. The items requiring a specific license remained substantially unchanged. 608 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO October 25. A trade agreement of the most-favored-nation type was signed with Yugoslavia. November 1. Motor vehicles with a maximum gross weight of over ten tons and trailers with a maximum gross weight of over eight tons required a specific import license. November 14. Burmese kyats were added to the list of specified currencies. 609 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian D inar or D 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the d inar in relation to the French f r anc is fixed at D 0.10634 per F 1. Buying and selling rates for other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market, by taking the average of the d ifferent rates quoted in Paris and converting it into dinars at the French f ranc /d inar exchange rate. The rate for the U.S. dollar for settlements under bilateral payments agreements is D 0.525 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Ministry of P lann ing and Na t ional Economy, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is a member of the French Franc Area. For payment pur- poses, countries are classified as fo l lows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements (Bulgaria, Main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., the United A rab Republic, and Yugo s lav ia ); and (3) the area of convertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that A r e a; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Ruman ia, the United A rab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian dinars with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement f r an cs with Ma in land Ch ina; and with countries in the area of convertibility, generally in convertible currencies l or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must normally be made, in accordance with the foregoing, on the basis of the country of or ig in; however, all imports shipped f rom other countries of the French Franc Area, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 610 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA in French francs. Certain commercial transactions with India must be settled in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French francs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with pro- ceeds f rom sales of French f r an cs or convertible currencies (see foot- note 1 ); with transfers f rom other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited free ly for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely with French francs transferred by a nonresident to the account ho lder; with proceeds in French f rancs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payable either in French f rancs or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited free ly for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are1 staying temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars, They may be credited free ly with proceeds f rom sales of French francs or convertible currencies; with transfers from other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distri- butions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds f rom sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repayment of loans granted f rom the same account. They may be debited freely for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his f am i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for purchase in Tunisia, subj ect to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchases, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and pape r; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports f rom these countries and with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited 611 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA freely for payments of any kind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and f rom these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with pay- ments for authorized imports f rom these countries with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia which are due f rom the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipa- tion of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the French Franc A rea ). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets, and with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guarantee. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for the crediting of the sales proceeds of agricultural property belonging to nonresidents of French nationality. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the administration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the initial account holder; taxes payable by the account holder; the granting of credits to residents; and gifts to social, cultural, and religious institutions established in Tunisia. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely f or the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., credit or debit operations resulting f rom the sale or purchase of business con- cerns, or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely 612 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of convertibility, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first- mentioned group to those in the other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and ga infu l ly employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other nonresident accounts either in accordance with a general or an indi- vidual license of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one fam i ly. All other debits of these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 75 goods f rom any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc Area) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. All imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports f rom the United States under Public Law 480. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Off ice du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of com- modities fa l l ing within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fruits, etc.). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associations and by state agencies are sub ject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. Apart f rom the "prohibited" imports, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. Exceptions are the fo l low ing, which are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction and require individual licenses: (1) imports of 25 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas applicable to all countries, (2) imports of commodities for which 613 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA bilateral quotas have been agreed with countries outside the French Franc Area,2 and (3) imports from France of goods included in a list agreed upon between the French and the Tunisian authorities and which are subject to quotas applicable to France only. Among the goods included in the list are perfumes and cosmetics, wood, leather goods, woven fabrics, certain clothing, jewelry, certain iron and steel products, air conditioners, washing and drying machines, motor vehicles, and clocks and watches. Payments for imports f rom France or other coun- tries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization f rom the Central Bank. Such authorization is always granted, but may some- times be delayed when the Central Bank is short of French francs. The Central Bank submits all payments applications for unrestricted imports from France to the Ministry of Planning and National Econ- omy for endorsement. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods f rom countries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the competent ministry; the prior approval (visa) of the Central Bank is required for making the corresponding import payment. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liberalized goods, for which licenses, in principle, are granted automatically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported f rom any country; and (3) goods admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. There have been certain delays in granting licenses for liberalized goods. The free list does not apply to payments agree- ment countries. Save in exceptional circumstances, licenses for goods not included in the free list, the global quota list, or the "prohibited" list are reserved for countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force. Liberalized goods valued at less than D 200 and certain spare parts valued at not more than D 500 are free of license. All imports f rom countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or of bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must 2 These countries include most European OECD countries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements are in force (see Prescription of Currency, above). 614 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 5, 10, and 15 per cent apply to 300 sections of the t a r i f f; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharma- ceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Provided that appropriate documentation is submitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remit- tances of profits, dividends, and interest due to nonresidents. Payments for such items as business travel and fam i ly maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel and publicity expenditures abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their fam i ly with them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50. The allocation may be taken in the fo rm of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries do not require a license. Some other exports require export licenses. For all exports, exporters must give undertakings to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place within 15 days f rom the date payment is due, and, in any event, within 100 days f rom the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used freely 615 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA for business travel and publicity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil, salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on specified calcium phosphates and superphosphates, metallurgical ores, scrap iron, raw lead, and lead residuals. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived f rom services rendered to persons resident abroad, inc lud ing residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds f rom invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guaran- tee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia are granted foreign exchange up to D 3,500 upon leaving Tunisia pe rmanen t ly; amounts in excess of this limit are credited to Capital Accoun ts, as are inheritances received a f ter the departure of the beneficiary. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of non t rans fe rab le foreign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. All capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of fore ign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, fo rb idden; in some instances, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Changes during 1966 February 17. Economic and financial relations with Rhodesia were broken o f f. All payments to Rhodesia were suspended. All accounts held in Tunisia in the name of natural and juridical persons resident in Rhodesia were blocked. April. All imports financed with suppliers' credit required prior approval by the Ministry of Planning and National Economy. 616 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA April 5. The global import quotas for 1966 were announced. They amounted to D 16.4 million, compared with 1965 quotas totaling D 12.6 million. June 6. Preferential tariff treatment was again applied to certain products originating in and shipped f rom France. June 6. An import quota in the amount of D 2.3 million for the second half of 1966 was opened for specified products originating in and shipped f rom France. August 22. Imports of chlorine and hydrochloric acid were prohibited. September 25. Imports valued at D 10 or less and shipped by parcel post C.O.D. were limited to a maximum amount of D 200 a year for any single importer and were restricted to specified commodities; hencefor th, such imports also required prior authorization. October 21. Imports of spark plugs and electrical starting and igni- tion equipment for internal combustion engines were prohibited. 617 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.987412 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira or LT 9.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Off ic ial rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency concerned. A tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transportation. Remittances f rom Turkish workers abroad are converted at the par va lue; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account at a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 27 per cent of the amount converted. The cost of this additional payment, representing three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum, is borne by the government budget. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the determination as to whether they should be admitted f ree of restric- tion or under quantitative limitation is the responsibility of the Min- istry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank or, for some categories of imports under quotas, by the Union of Cham- bers of Commerce and Industry and the competent ministry. Certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require the prior approval of the competent ministry, primarily for public security, agricultural, or health reasons. The Central Bank issues import licenses, and the Min- istry of Commerce issues export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise and invisibles with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements1 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within this 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Cham- bers of Commerce), Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 618 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY period. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import mer- chan ts), industrialists (manufac turers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private indi- viduals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" before submitting through the authorized banks applica- tions for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. However, exporters, operators of mining undertakings and tourist establishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for a year and announced for six-month periods in January and July. The import programs, which include com- modities financed with funds f rom the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) and commodities to be imported under U.S. Public Law 480, classify imports in two categories: (1) a list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued f ree ly; and (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas. With some exceptions, imports of goods that do not appear on either of these lists are prohibited. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas, in principle, apply only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements, but goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberalization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations from U.S. AID funds, while other goods on these lists may be imported only with U.S. AID funds and only f rom the United States. An over-all foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted through author- ized banks at any time during the validity of the list; these banks pre- pare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. The global quota list distinguishes between quotas for registered importers and quotas for industrialists. Allocations for imports on the global quota list are made by the Central Bank, by one of several ministries, or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, within quantitative limits established for each quota item included in these two categories. Quotas for importers, in principle, are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis. Applications for these quotas must be made through an authorized bank within one month of the date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular commodity. Applicants are notified of allocations made by the Central Bank through 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY the authorized banks. Within two months of receiving such notice of an allocation, the importer must apply for an import license through an authorized bank. Quotas for industrialists are allocated by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the Ministry of Industry on the basis of such criteria as capacity, output, and previous per- formance. A f ter the applicant has secured an allocation (i.e., has been issued a "certificate of need"), he must apply through an authorized bank to the Central Bank for an import license within three months, and no later than one mon th f rom the expiration date of the quota list. Some quotas, irrespective of the category (either importers' or indus- trialists') in which they are included, are allocated by particular author- ities, for example, the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance, Industry, or Health and W e l f a r e; a f ter securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must follow the procedure for imports under industrialists' quotas. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. The import licensing procedure for goods f rom these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are dealt with on a monthly basis. The import license permits the necessary fore ign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed f rom U.S. AID funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange applied fo r. For payments against documents or goods for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to prepay 50 per cent of the value of the import, while the remainder is paid when the fore ign exchange transfer is effected, with the proviso that it must be effec ted within five months f rom the date of the import license in the case of payments against documents and within one month f rom the date of customs clearance in the case of payments against goods. Guarantee deposits for imports not financed f rom U.S. AID funds are payable in advance as follows: for goods on liberalization List I, 70 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable, and on List II, 100 per cen t; for imports under global quotas or b i la teral quotas, 30 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by importers, and 10 per cent by industrialists, at the time application to import is made. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment employed; the public sector is exempt. The deposit remains blocked 620 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY until the goods have been imported and the foreign supplier pa id; it is then r e fund ed to the importer. For imports to be financed f r om U.S. AID funds, a guarantee deposit is also payable at the time application is made to impo r t; these deposits are r e f u n d ed upon the opening of a letter of credit. The deposits required are as fo l lows: for imports on liberalization Lists I and II, 30 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by importers and 20 per cent by industrialists; for imports on the quota list, 20 per cent is payable by importers and 10 per cent by industrialists. A guarantee payment of 10 per cent not to exceed LT 100,000 is also payable for imports of the pub l ic sector other than central government agencies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Turkish residents and foreign companies or contractors unde r tak ing business in Turkey may import freely com- modities for personal, fam i ly, or business use within a limit of LT 300 for each transac t ion; fu r the rmo re, they may freely import goods on the l ibera l iza t ion list without obtaining any allocation of fo re ign exchange. In add i t ion to personal effects, foreign tourists and re turn ing residents may import goods and machinery for their personal or fam i ly use. For Turkish residents, such imports may not exceed LT 1,000 in total value. Permission for the importation of g if ts or donations f r om abroad in the fo rm of commodities is granted to Turkish residents in Turkey within a limit of LT 1,000. Government off ic ia ls re turn ing from their perma- nent posts ab road, Turkish professors re tu rn ing a f ter two years or more of teach ing in fore ign universities, Turkish nationals returning a f ter five years or more of residence abroad, and nonresidents entering Tur- key to become residents may import their new or used household goods. Imports w i thout an allocation of foreign exchange by specified immi- grants are limited to commodities included either in the liberalization list or in the quota list; no license for a commodity on the quota list may exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that item or the equivalent of US$10,000, whichever is lower. Foreign companies and contractors may import machinery, vehicles, and spare parts not intended for new investments, without requesting an allocation of fore ign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for the ir operations in Turkey and provided that they are supplied by the ir ma in offices or parent companies. Such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities when their annual total value does not exceed LT 100,000, or the permission of the 621 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Ministry of Finance when the value is above this amount. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Turkish residents may import automobiles2 (not more than five years old and not exceeding 1,600 kilograms in we igh t ), goods, and machinery for their personal, fam i ly, or professional use, provided that the source and amount of their income f rom abroad is consistent with certain rules and conditions established by the Ministry of Finance. Earnings abroad in excess of US$150 monthly are considered as savings in determining the basis for the limit on such imports. For imports of automobiles, minimum total savings of US$800 are required. Permission to import is generally given by the Central Bank; for imports by returning workers who have been employed abroad for at least two years under arrange- ments made by the State Employment Office, permission may be granted by the customs authorities, provided that the value of the goods (exclud- ing cars) does not exceed LT 3,000 (or LT 10,000 when the goods are to be used in the worker's employment in Turkey). Personal effects of persons entering Turkey are exempt f rom customs duty, while all other imports without an allocation of foreign exchange are subject to the payment of customs duty. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents freely, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds f rom such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials other than diplomats may not sell to Turkish nationals their automobiles which are imported duty-free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years. This three-year period, however, can be extended; in that case, such cars may be sold in Turkey a f ter the owner has lived there for five years. All customs declarations or documents used in lieu thereof are charged with a stamp duty of 5 per cent ad valorem.3 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the follow- 2 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 3 On February 2, 1967, Law No. 827 entered into force, which introduced a quay duty of 5 per cent ad valorem on imported goods arriving by sea. On February 13, 1967, the stamp duty was increased to 10 per cent on the value de- clared for customs purposes. 622 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ing, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs), subscrip- tions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and simi- lar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The t rans fer of income related to approved foreign investments is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Tur- key and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel by residents (irrespective of nationality) is the equivalent of US$200 a calendar year (US$111 for persons under 18 years of age ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the amount of income of, or income tax paid by, the applicant firm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, partici- pation in international meetings, fa irs, athletic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who 'can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treat- ment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the main one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is payable on all exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 200 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-export or to assure adequate 623 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in convertible currenc ies are sub ject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are requ ired to sell to a bank in Turkey the fo r e ign exchange proceeds of goods exported, w i th in three months f rom the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer w i th in three mon ths f rom the date on wh ich the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acqu is i t ion of the exchange. Rem i t- tances f rom Turkish workers abroad must be converted at the par va lue. When the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Tur- key, an add i t ional amount of 27 per cent is immediately credited to the account, representing three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum; the amounts deposited plus the interest can be w i thdrawn at any time. Group travel in Turkey by nonresidents may be financed f rom blocked lira balances. Firms and ind iv idua ls who have purchased foreign bank- notes and travelers checks f rom, or received them as payment f rom, foreign travelers are required to surrender them to an authorized exchange dealer within one month. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles of a va lue exceeding LT 5,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 500. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control author- ities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law (see be low ), foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the fo rm of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry (see be low ). Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign com- panies and contractors is subject to permission by the Ministry of 624 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Finance. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not con- vert into fo re ign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings acc ru ing to th em; if such earnings exceed LT 5,000 a year, any excess is blocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the benefit of third parties to be used for tourist trips on a collective basis in Turkey or for film production in Turkey; for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of proper ty; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be t rans fe r red to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked f u n ds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that pa rt of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked f u n ds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Invest- ments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Invest- ments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agree- ment, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, as amended, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon applica- tion, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and 625 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Changes during 1966 January 4- It was announced that the total import program for 1966 would amount to some US$725 million, compared with about US$665 million for 1965. January 4- The sixteenth import program, covering the first half of 1966, was published. Minor changes were made in the liberalized and quota lists. April 1. A new trade agreement with the United A rab Republic stip- ulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; all payments in respect of goods in the attached commodity lists, however, were to be made through an account opened with the Central Bank of Turkey in the name of the Central Bank of Egypt and subject to reciprocal credit facilities between the two Central Banks. April 18. Decree No. 6/6249 was issued containing regulations imple- menting Law No. 753 of March 15,1966 concerning imports by specified immigrants. Licenses would not be issued for goods not included either in the liberalization list or in the quota list. No license for a com- modity on the quota list could exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that commodity or the equivalent of US$10,000, whichever was lower. July 4- The seventeenth import program, covering the second half of 1966, was announced. Minor changes were made in the liberalized and quota lists. 626 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY July 29. The sale in Turkey of automobiles imported by foreign diplomats was made conditional on reciprocity; the sale of automobiles and personal or household effects imported duty-free by foreign nationals other than diplomats was severely restricted. October 1. All payments between Finland and Turkey were effected in convertible currencies. 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling or U Sh 7.14286 == US$1. The Uganda shilling is officially maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relationship U Sh 1 = US$0.14. The Uganda shilling circulates concurrently with the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East A f r ican shilling issued by the East A f r ican Currency Board; these three currencies may be exchanged into Uganda shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Bank of Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the public, the Bank of Uganda stands ready to issue Uganda shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Uganda shillings; the official limits for the buying and selling rates for sterling differ from parity by % and % per cent, respectively. The Bank deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are at present within the official limits. The Bank does not deal in foreign currencies x other than sterling. Banks in Uganda base their rates for such foreign curren- cies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Treasury. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some cap i tal pay- ments to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Minstry of Com- merce and Industry under the External Trade Ordinance. The respon- sibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Minister of Commerce and Industry, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Uganda before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East A f r ican currency area. Payments f rom Uganda to Kenya and Tanzania are free of restrictions. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East African shilling. 628 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settlements with Kenya and Tanzania, however, must be effected in East A f r ican currency.2 Payments to residents of countries in the Ster- ling Area other than Kenya and Tanzania may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Uganda shillings f rom a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments for specified imports f rom India, however, must temporarily be made to a designated account in Uganda shillings. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other foreign cur- rency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings from an External Account, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Uganda residents, with transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers f rom External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania to Uganda residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and 2 East African currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and East African shillings. 3 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East African shilling. 629 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Tanzania for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tanzania has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Uganda, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tanzania has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda; the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of pur- chase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy. All imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. For import licensing purposes two groups of countries can be distin- guished: (1) specified countries 4 from which all imports are subject to * Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, East- ern Germany, Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, Tangier, and U.S.S.R. 630 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA individual licensing and (2) all other countries (including Kenya and Tanzan ia), except Rhodesia and South A f r ica. The import from coun- tries in the second group of about 40 commodities or groups of com- modities is subject to individual licensing irrespective of origin. The import f rom countries in the second group of about 35 other commodi- ties or groups of commodities is subject to individual licensing unless the goods originate in or are shipped from Kenya or Tanzania. All other commodities from countries in the second group may be imported freely without license. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Minister of Com- merce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the importer that the goods have been shipped from the country of origin or imported into Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda. Payments for imports must be made within six months of the arrival of the goods in any one of these countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Tan- zania are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve speci- fied categories of current payments up to established limits; with the exception of transfers of savings from salaries by expatriate workers in Uganda, amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories 5 is the equivalent of U Sh 5,000 a person a year, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Tan- zania may take out up to U Sh 250 in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East A f r ican shilling notes and up to U Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Tanzania may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East Afr ican shilling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of U Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to a country other than Kenya or Tanzania more than U Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. 5 Uganda's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 631 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Facilities exist whereby salaried nationals, other than nationals of the Scheduled Territories, may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 50 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. For residents who have lived in Uganda for more than four years, the savings element of the remit- tance is restricted to 20 per cent of the salary. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to South Afr ica, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of £ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East African shilling notes must not exceed U Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Tanzania, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are restricted. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11,1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Tanzania require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving the Scheduled Territories (see footnote 5) permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 100,000. If they take up permanent residence in their country of origin in the Sterling Area, approval is normally given for the fur ther transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 40,000 upon each anniversary of their departure. All 632 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may be invested in certain approved securities; such funds, if invested, become transferable five years after being directed to a Blocked Account. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. Divi- dends and profits due to nonresidents and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are transferable. Except in respect of Kenya and Tanzania, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Uganda securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Tanzania by residents are not normally permitted. With minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in the Scheduled Territories which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories require prior exchange control approval. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. Changes during 1966 March. Import licenses for goods of Japanese origin were issued more freely. March 2. All imports of cotton fabr ics, synthetic fabrics, jute bags and sacking, and ju te and hessian in the piece required a special license when of Indian origin. April. All payments for imports from India had to be made to the credit of a local currency account in Uganda. Balances on this account were to be used to reimburse exporters who had previously contracted to sell cotton to India. April 6. Further imports required an individual license. In addition, the requirement was extended to all imports of agricultural and indus- trial machinery and engineering goods originating in India. May 4- Uganda and seven other East Afr ican countries (Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzania, and Zambia) signed a 633 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA preliminary agreement on the establishment of an East Afr ican Eco- nomic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. June 15. Statutory Instrument No. 77 made all imports subject to individual licensing unless imported by the Government or by any of the scheduled services of the East A f r ican Common Services Organiza- tion. Until further notice, however, the import of most goods for which licenses were not required prior to June 15,1966 continued to be allowed without a license. July L The remittance privileges of expatriate salaried employees in Uganda were reviewed; a distinction was made between those who resided in the country for a period under four years and those whose term of residence exceeded four years. In the former case, persons were allowed to remit up to 50 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, as previously, and for the latter, this facility was allowed to continue on the basis of 50 per cent of the gross earnings but the savings element therein was not to exceed 20 per cent; previously, no such distinction was made for this purpose. July 27. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem was imposed on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of £ stg. 400 a ton. July 29. Statutory Instrument No. 109 containing implementing pro- visions for the general import licensing requirement of June 15 (see above) took effect. The import without a special license was prohibited of commodities enumerated in List 1. This list applied to all countries, except for certain items also mentioned in List 3; the latter items could be imported f rom Kenya and Tanzania without a license. Furthermore, the import of all commodities f rom certain countries enumerated in List 2 required a special license; these countries were the Republic of China, India, Iran, Iraq, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Tangier, Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. August 14- The central bank, the Bank of Uganda, started operations. August 15. The Bank of Uganda began to issue banknotes denomi- nated in Uganda shillings. The new currency would gradually replace the East A f r ican shilling at par. The latter would remain legal tender in Uganda until fur ther notice. August 15. An initial par value for the Uganda shilling of U Sh 1 = US$0.14 was established with the International Monetary Fund. September 9. Exchange control approval was required for all future contracts involving imports where payment was to be made later than six months af ter importation of the goods. Importers who had already 634 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA entered into deferred payment agreements with overseas suppliers for periods in excess of six months were required to supply their banks with fu ll details. December 1. The amount of East A f r ican currency notes (Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and East A f r ican shil- lings) that travelers to destinations outside the Scheduled Territories could take out of Uganda was reduced from U Sh 500 to U Sh 250; the allowance for arriving travelers not entering Uganda direct from Kenya or Tanzania was also reduced f rom U Sh 500 to U Sh 250. 635 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30, but an exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt at the end of December 1966 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Opera- tions, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the Central Bank. An Export Board controls exports. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible currency ;1 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the cur- rency of the payer's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange control regulations of the United Arab Republic as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 636 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agree- ments.2 Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic, there are three main types of nonresident accounts: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any non- resident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred f rom abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the account; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Non- resident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any non- resident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers f rom Free Nonresident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts and payments abroad in convertible currencies. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with the follow- ing countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, India (for trade in certain commodities), Iraq, North Korea, Libya, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Yemen, and Yugoslavia. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodi- ties, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central bank of each of the following countries: Cameroon, Ceylon, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. 637 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers f rom the account of one country to any other country may not be made without Central Exchange Control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of any con- vertible currency that has been transferred f rom ab road; with trans- fers f rom a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —with transfers f rom a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remit/table under the exchange control regulations. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited for investments in U.A.R. Government loans and in registered shares in nominative form of companies established in the United Arab Republic, and for subscrip- tions to increases in capital of U.A.R. companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived f rom such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a fa i r ly large number of goods f rom any source, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia, are prohibited. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors. The authorities in charge of each sector decide whether they should import direct or through the state-owned importing agencies. The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. A central Financing Committee convenes periodically to decide upon the import transactions recommended by the sectors that will be carried out during the period under review, within a given fore ign exchange allocation. This foreign exchange 638 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC allocation is determined periodically after deducting from the estimated exchange earnings of the subsequent period the foreign debt service obligations and other payments for invisibles fa l l ing due in that period. Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Exchange Control. The payment is arranged through the bank designated for the sector. Imports of personal baggage and imports not requiring foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Office. A statistical tax of 10 per cent is payable on imports. Advance pay- ments exceeding LE 100 for imports require the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for payments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Con- trol is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current pay- ments. Expenses for permitted travel, family maintenance, film royal- ties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. The allowance for permitted travel is the equivalent of LE 75. Private travel abroad is freely per- mitted when no exchange is applied for. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remittances, government payments, and transfers of funds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remaining foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared, but residents may not take out foreign banknotes in excess of LE 10 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel and Rhodesia, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export fo rm must be submitted. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds f rom exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). 639 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds f rom Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible cur- rencies or by transfers f rom a Free Nonresident Account. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic f rom abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring securities or other capital assets outside the United Arab Republic require indi- vidual licenses, which normally are not granted except for transfers to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Private capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United A rab Republic against payment in foreign currencies accept- able to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above ). Proceeds f rom sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between residents of the same monetary area are permitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of l ife or endowment policies on surrender or at maturity; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, 640 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish the limits for transfers of profits. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. Changes during 1966 January 1. Decrees Nos. 31 and 32 listed the commodities that could be freely exported to and imported f rom the other countries of the Arab Common Market. February 14. Certain new commercial and financial arrangements were agreed with the Sudan. Provision was made for transfers by Sudanese resident in the United Arab Republic of their pensions or savings on final departure and for transfers in either direction in respect of inheritances. March 9. The amount of Egyptian pound banknotes that travelers could take out was reduced f rom LE 20 to LE 10. April 1. A new trade agreement with Turkey was signed, terminating the trade and payments agreement of August 15, 1953. The new agree- ment stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, reciprocal credit facili- ties were agreed by the two central banks in respect of payments for certain commodities agreed upon. April 10. An agreement with Denmark entered into effect regarding the settlement of nationalized assets of Danish nationals. April 14. A new trade protocol with India for the year beginning on March 1,1966 provided the United Arab Republic with technical credit facilities equivalent to Rs 100 million in case of insufficiency of the balance on the special account; fur ther accommodation up to Rs 20 mil- lion could be requested f rom the Indian Government. May 21. A protocol to the trade and payments agreement with Spain was signed. The swing credit was increased from US$2 million to US$4 million, with provision for a further increase to US$7 million. May 22. The bilateral payments agreement with the Republic of Viet-Nam expired. June 2. A new trade agreement with Morocco was signed, terminating the trade agreement of July 31, 1958 and the payments agreement of July 13, 1959. The new agreement provided that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, reciprocal credit facilities were agreed by the two central banks in respect of payments for certain commodities and invisibles agreed upon. June 8. A new bilateral payments agreement was signed with the Syrian Arab Republic. It provided for settlements in respect of most 641 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC transactions to be channeled through bilateral accounts. Previously, only settlements in respect of transactions concluded prior to October 1961 were channeled through bilateral accounts. June 8. A new trade agreement with Guinea was signed, terminating the trade and payments agreement of May 16, 1961. The new agree- ment stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, reciprocal credit facili- ties were agreed by the two central banks in respect of payments for certain invisibles. July 18. The cotton export policy for the 1966-67 season was announced. Export prices would be un i fo rm for all markets and no barter deals or special transactions would be authorized. July 18. The protocol signed with Lebanon on October 20, 1965 came into operation, terminating the bilateral payments agreement and the arrangements concerning tourism with that country. Payments between the two countries continued to be made in convertible currencies. July 28. An agreement was signed with France concerning compensa- tion of French nationals for the nationalization of their property. It also provided for the settlement of claims arising from sequestration measures taken by the United Arab Republic. July 29. A new trade agreement with Mali was signed, terminating the trade and payments agreement of March 5, 1961. The new agree- ment stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, reciprocal credit facilities were agreed by the two central banks in respect of payments for certain commodities agreed upon. August 2. Agreement was reached with Italy on the rescheduling of certain financial obligations to that country. August 6. A new trade agreement with Niger came into operation, terminating the trade and payments agreement of March 15,1962. The new agreement stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies. August 19. A new trade agreement with Cameroon was signed, ter- minating the trade and payments agreement of December 19, 1961. The new agreement stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, recip- rocal credit facilities were agreed by the two central banks in respect of payments for commodities. September 5. The compensation agreement signed on March 23, 1965 with Italy in respect of nationalized Italian assets entered into effect. 642 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC September 26. An agreement was signed with Greece concerning com- pensation for nationalized Greek assets. November 8. A new trade agreement with Ceylon was signed, termi- nating the trade and payments agreement of December 23, 1960. The new agreement stipulated that all payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, reciprocal credit facilities were agreed by the the two central banks in respect of pay- ments for certain commodities agreed upon. November 24- Agreement was reached with the Sudan to increase trade in both directions. Each side agreed to obtain its requirements basically f rom the partner country. December 5. Agreement was reached between the Central Bank of Egypt and the French Company for the Insurance of Foreign Trade with respect to repayment of debts owed by U.A.R. importers through December 31,1966. 643 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling or £1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per £1. Market rates for spot transactions in other convertible or externally convertible currencies (except those cur- rencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian dollars and New Zealand pounds) are free to move within a range of rates resulting from the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Authorized banks may, subject to the observance of limits upon the accumulation of spot foreign exchange, carry out forward transac- tions at rates which may fluctuate under the influence of market forces. Transactions with resident customers may be entered into only for approved purposes. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies except the Rhodesian pound. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market rates of exchange. There is also a market in which the foreign exchange pro- ceeds (referred to as investment currency or security dollars) resulting mainly f rom the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities1 or direct investments owned by residents may be nego- tiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate; at the end of 1966, that premium was about 22 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities and for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area. In another market the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as property currency) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property (mainly houses and apartments) owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates; the premium over the official market rate was about 23 per cent at the end of 1966. These funds are available, with specific permission, for the purchase of a house or apartment for personal use in a country outside the Sterling Area, for attendant expenses, and for improvements to such property. 1 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is to be read as meaning securities expressed in a currency of a country outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. 644 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control).2 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that resi- dents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the dis- posal of assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling Area. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r i c a ), and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area (see section on Capital, below). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury, as is the voluntary restraint program on certain outward investment. However, practi- cally all commercial banks are authorized to approve most payments requiring exchange control permission. Certain capital issues and other borrowing in the United Kingdom by residents of other coun- tries require the prior approval of the Capital Issues Committee. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be in sterling from an External Account or in any specified currency,3 or in any other foreign currency that is freely 2 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyprus, Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Irish Republic, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwait, Lesotho, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, South West Africa, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously mentioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. The Maldive Islands are administra- tively treated as being within the Sterling Area. 8The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian 645 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM exchangeable for sterling. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by credit- ing sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rho- desian Accounts, Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts, or Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) that is freely exchangeable for sterling or in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia shipped on or after December 18, 1965 must be paid for in a specified currency or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the Sterling Area as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for living expenses within the Sterling Area. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United King- dom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Blocked Accounts, Rho- desian Accounts, the Rhodesian Special Account, and Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts (see be low), the sterling accounts of non- residents, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds (including banknotes), lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 646 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers for a limited number of purposes to Rhodesian Accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds (including banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers f rom External Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported f rom Rhodesia, and transfers f rom other Rhodesian Accounts and f rom Temporary Resident Accounts; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rho- desia, subject to certain requirements; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, (2) the discount or maturity proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports f rom Rhodesia which have entered customs in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling Area territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, and (6) pension and widows' annuities. Permitted debits include transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts; transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the Sterling Area of the account holder and his f am i ly; the cost of approved foreign exchange facilities for travel by the account ho lder; payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods of Sterling Area origin shipped to Rhodesia prior to December 18, 1965; payments to Sterling Area residents in respect of insurance and freight charges arising f rom permitted trade prior to December 18, 1965 between Rhodesia and the Sterling Area, wages, salaries, and directors' fees under contracts established prior to December 18, 1965, patents, designs, and trade- marks registered, and royalties under contracts entered into, on or before November 11, 1965; payments to Sterling Area residents for (1) expenses arising out of property in the Sterling Area owned on or before November 11, 1965, (2) educational fees and incidental expenses, (3) insurance premiums on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (4) taxes due in the Sterling Area, (5) inheritances, (6) payments to residents of the Sterling Area in respect of gifts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one pay- ment to individuals and charitable or religious organizations, provided that similar payments were made on or before November 11, 1965, and (7) bank and legal charges, medical fees, and various other personal payments; interest, dividends, and capital repayments on Rhodesian 647 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM securities; authorized purchases of sterling securities and Rhodesian securities for account of Rhodesian residents; and purchases in the United Kingdom of Treasury bills to be held for Rhodesian account. Transfers f rom Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not allowed. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia House staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling Area, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Sterling Area, are normally settled through this account. Corre- sponding transfers f rom Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Sterling Area and of services provided by residents of the Sterling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Blocked Sterling Accounts. These accounts are applicable to resi- dents of all countries outside the Sterling Area except Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (residents of these countries may transfer all their sterling funds to their respective countries), and Rhodesia (see below). Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that may not be placed at the f ree disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom most sterling securities which are not redeem- able within five years f rom the date of acquisition.4 The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeem- able, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are permitted freely. Blocked Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in f ree markets abroad. The rates for blocked sterling, also called security sterling or switch sterling, remained within 1 per cent of parity during most of 1966. The U.K. authorities permit nonresidents of the Sterling Area (except residents of Rhodesia) who hold blocked funds in other parts of the Sterling Area to transfer these to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom, subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities of the country concerned, and to invest or negotiate the blocked sterling in accordance with the above. * Sterling securities are those securities that are not considered foreign currency securities. 648 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts. Rhodesian owners of sterling securities and Rhodesian securities may sell such securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, provided that the sale proceeds are credited only to a Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Account. Funds on or eligible for credit to such accounts are available only for appropriate reinvestment or transfer to another Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Account. Balances on these accounts may not be dealt with as security sterling. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United King- dom other than Rhodesia 5 are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar Area,6 Japan, the Eastern Area,7 and the Relaxation Area (all other countries).8 Imports from countries other than Rhodesia and those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantita- tive restriction, with the following exceptions: (a) from other Sterling Area countries, 14 commodities or groups of commodities;9 (b) from the Relaxation Area, 4 commodities or groups of commodities, in addi- tion to those covered by (a) above; (c) f rom the Dollar Area, 6 com- modities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above; and (d) from Japan, 2 commodities or groups of commodi- ties, in addition to those covered by (b) above. Imports from coun- tries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantitative restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manu- factured and semimanufactured goods. Imports from Bulgaria, Main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland of certain other manufac tured goods also are admitted without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Some imports are prohibited from all non-Sterling Area sources. These 6 For security reasons, imports from Rhodesia are controlled by import licensing; virtually all are prohibited. 8 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. TThe Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mon- golia, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 8 Japan will ultimately be treated as being in the Relaxation Area. For a transitional period, certain items continue to be restricted. 'Co f fee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license for statistical purposes only. 649 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM are coal, coke, and solid fuels manu fac tu red from coal or coke, and whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight containers. Imports of pig meat and preparations containing pig meat, with certain minor exceptions, from the Dollar Area also are prohibited. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to minimum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other fo rm of license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign exchange or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evi- dence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea; neither are they required for pay- ments to residents of other countries, unless the payment exceeds £2,000 and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of £250 is being bought forward. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rhodesia)10 is granted freely for all pur- poses other than travel, subject to the presentation of supporting evi- dence. The completion of an exchange control fo rm is required for payments exceeding £250. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to estab- lished limits. Except for travel, applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. 10 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. Transfers of reasonable amounts are permitted, however, for charitable, religious, medical, and educa- tional purposes, provided that similar remittances were made prior to Novem- ber 11, 1965, and to relieve hardship. Small personal gifts are also permitted. 650 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against payment in sterling f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. An allowance of up to £50 a person a year in foreign exchange other than Rhodesian pounds may be made available to residents by banks and authorized travel agents for personal travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rhodesia. For travel for business or professional rea- sons, an allowance of up to £20 a day, for up to two months, may similarly be made available by banks and authorized travel agents. Applications for larger amounts for business or professional travel must be referred to the Bank of England, and each case is considered on its merits. Applications for more than £50 for private travel within a period of a year must similarly be referred, but are not normally approved. The above travel allowances are exclusive of the payment of fa res for transport forming an integral part of the main journey, the cost of which is not limited, provided that payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom; separate provisions, however, are in effect for cruises. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport, as must the amount of non-Sterling Area expenditure for accommodation, etc., that has been settled in sterling in the United Kingdom; this amount ("the V - fo rm content") is deducted f rom the appropriate travel allowance. Any unused travel exchange must be surrendered within one month of issue or upon return. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £15 in U.K. and other Sterling Area banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £15 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Irish Republic. Special regulations apply to travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of foreign exchange at a rate of up to £10 a day with a maximum of £250. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are strong compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, to any other destination require export licenses. All other exports are free of license. Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Except for exports to Rhodesia, exchange control procedure is waived for exports not exceeding £2,000 f.o.b., other than gifts in kind, 651 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM for which the upper limit is £100 f.o.b. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must obtain payment within six months of shipment, unless special permission has been granted to collect at a later date. Exchange receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in a specified currency (see footnote 3) or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts in specified currencies (see footnote 3) on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of foreign exchange may, however, be permitted to retain their exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. British and foreign banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Proceeds of a capital nature in non-Sterling Area currencies other than specified currencies are not subject to surrender; however, they may be disposed of only with permission, which may be obtained for the use of such funds by the recipient for investments and for other payments outside the Sterling Area. Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian pounds from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct invest- ments situated outside the Sterling Area) may, in certain circum- stances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If per- mission is not forthcoming and the foreign exchange is one of the specified currencies (see footnote 3 ), it must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in specified currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.11 Applications 11A similar 25 per cent requirement applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securities derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 652 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM to have regarded as investment currency any foreign currency belong- ing to residents of the United Kingdom who are "exempted foreign nationals" are normally considered only in respect of assets held at the time of designation as resident of the United Kingdom by persons so designated prior to July 29, 1965, or of securities acquired through the investment currency market. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r i c a) and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area. The aim for direct investment in these four Sterling Area countries is that for the time being direct investments exceeding £25,000 a year per pro ject in any one of these countries should be postponed, financed from normally retained profits (i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent pas t ), or financed by appropriate financing f rom local sources. Firms and individuals wishing nevertheless to proceed in these four countries with investment plans involving a capital outflow f rom the United Kingdom are requested to submit these plans to the Bank of England. The Bank will examine the plans to see whether they promise an early, substan- tial, and continuing benefit to the U.K. balance of payments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct investments outside the Sterling Area (see below). The aim for portfolio investment is that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institutional investor of either securities denominated in non-Sterling Area currencies or securities denominated in the currencies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned. Residents of the United Kingdom may make capital transfers with- out restriction to other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital trans- fers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rho- desian securities, or by any other means. For direct investments out- side the Sterling Area, official exchange is not made available. Such direct investments may, with authorization, be financed with invest- ment currency or by suitable long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area. However, before permission will be given for the use of invest- ment currency, direct investments outside the Sterling Area of over £25,000 a year must promise an early, substantial, and continuing bene- fit to the U.K. balance of payments; this benefit must be in the form of additional export earnings and/or profit remittances to the United 653 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Kingdom such as will at least equal the cost of the original capital outlay within two to three years and will continue thereafter. Other approved direct investments in excess of £25,000 must be financed by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must also be financed with investment currency or, in some cases, by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling A rea; purchases of marketable fore ign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and authorized depositories, but net purchases by institutional investors are governed by the voluntary restraint program. The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific approval and must be made either from another U.K. resident for sterling or f rom a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improve- ments, but not maintenance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a fam i ly, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; so also are capital payments under l ife and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies. Residents emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £5,000 in foreign exchange for a fam i ly unit. An additional amount of £3,600 for a fam i ly unit is permitted to be transferred at annual intervals there- after if the emigrant is, at the time of his emigration f rom the United Kingdom, a national of a country outside the Sterling Area and is returning to that country for permanent residence; any funds in excess of these amounts may be realized through the security sterling market. The declared assets in excess of £5,000 of emigrants other than repatriates are restricted for a four-year period from the date of redesignation as a nonresident; during that period the funds may be disposed of for non-Sterling Area currencies through the investment currency market, and afterward any remaining assets are transferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresi- dent. Emigrants are, on their departure f rom the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their remaining assets are treated accordingly. The exceptions are that any sterling balances not used for the settling- in allowance, any proceeds at maturity of sterling securities that are redeemed during the period of the next four years, and certain other sterling capital payments which would normally be transferable to a 654 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM nonresident are subject to restriction and may not be realized through the security sterling market; such funds may, however, be invested in any sterling securities, and the income therefrom is freely remittable through the off ic ial exchange market. Repatriates, but not other emigrants, to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are permitted to transfer all their funds. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign exchange received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market. Where an investment is being made (including take- overs or participation in an existing business), the authorities must be satisfied that an acceptable proportion of the capital subscription will be made by foreign remittance. A direct investment by a nonresident made after January 1, 1950 with the approval of the exchange control authorities may be sold or otherwise liquidated, and the entire proceeds thereof, including any capital appreciation, which are due to the non- resident may be repatriated at any time. Payments abroad that are due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations are also permitted. Other payments in respect of nonresident-owned capital investment, except that owned by residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, are normally credited to Blocked Accounts. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent f rom the Treasury before borrowing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permis- sion is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufac tur ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U.K. economy. Transactions in securities of all types may be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Residents are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Ster- ling Area, and, a f ter 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other 655 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" and certain other operators may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement for certain of their operations.12 Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the off ic ial market rate of exchange.13 U.K. investment trusts are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency outside the Sterling Area at long term, for the purpose of making portfolio investments in foreign currency securi- ties. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of foreign currency, whether f rom U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations from buying and selling sterling and Rhodesian securities in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. U.K. companies do not require prior authorization to issue sterling bearer securities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy any securities (including officially quoted foreign currency securities) on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against payment f rom an External Account; against payment from a Blocked Account they may similarly buy Rhodesian securities and most sterling securities.14 13 Mainly investment trusts and members of the insurance market. 18 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final maturity) or in six-month Treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money market paper without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 14 These sterling securities are securities payable in a Sterling Area currency that are not redeemable within five years from the date of purchase (exceptionally, 2^ per cent Consols and 3% per cent War Loan may be acquired with sterling 656 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement only in foreign cur- rency. In no circumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or reinvested in a sterling security having at least five years to maturity (special facilities apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, dividends, etc., from such securities and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable may be remitted to the country of residence of the owner or credited to an External Account. Residents of Rhodesia may buy and sell sterling and Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom but the proceeds of sale, if not reinvested, may be credited only to a Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Account. Residents of Rhodesia may sell foreign currency securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and the proceeds of sale may be either reinvested in other foreign currency securities or sold for sterling which may be credited to a Rhodesian Account. Any securities purchased on behalf of residents of Rhodesia must be under the effective control of a U.K. authorized depository. Interest and dividends on, and the maturity proceeds of, sterling and Rhodesian securities owned by residents of Rhodesia must be withheld in suspense. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Changes during 1966 January 1. Interim arrangements governing imports of textiles in 1966 came into operation. They distinguished between countries under Open General License; Eastern Area countries; Japan; India and Hong Kong; and global quota countries comprising all other countries, including the U.K. dependent territories. For the global quota countries, from a Blocked Account) and that are not treated as a foreign currency security, i.e., a security which (1) is payable solely in foreign currency (except Rhodesian pounds) or (2) if payable in a currency of the Sterling Area (a) is also being paid currently in U.S. or Canadian dollars at a rate of exchange of approximately $4.86 = £1 or (b) was issued outside the Sterling Area on or after June 23, 1961. 657 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM global quotas replaced all existing individual country quotas and cer- tain arrangements for specific individual licenses. For a five-year period, the scheme was intended to limit to the 1962-64 average annual imports of cotton textiles from the countries under restriction, with a 1 per cent increase a year. Special arrangements continued with Eastern Area countries and Japan. Imports f rom Australia, New Zealand, and the industrialized countries of Western Europe and North America remained unrestricted. January 1. Additional imports from Mainland China and Poland were freely admitted under open individual license. Further imports from Japan were liberalized. January 14. It was announced that special arrangements had been made under which beneficiaries in Rhodesia could receive payment locally of pensions and associated payments due from residents of the Sterling Area, provided that payment was first made in sterling to an account operated by Rhodesia House, named the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. Correspondingly, pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Sterling Area would normally be paid from the Rhodesian Special Account. Authorized banks were given corresponding general permissions to credit pension monies to individual Rhodesian Accounts and to transfer such monies to the Rhodesian Special Account, but Rhodesian Accounts could no longer be debited for payments of pen- sions due to residents of the Sterling Area. Any balance in the Rho- desian Special Account could be used, subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, to pay in sterling for goods exported to Rho- desia from the Sterling Area and for services provided by residents of the Sterling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. January 19. Subject to individual approval by the Bank of England, remittances in reasonable amounts could be made to Rhodesia for charitable and similar purposes. January 19. Restrictions on exports of copper and copper alloy scrap were tightened. January 20. An Order in Council permitted restrictions to be placed on the export from Rhodesia or the import into Rhodesia of certain products. A further Order applied these provisions to the export of chrome from Rhodesia. January 24. Remittances by charitable, religious, medical, and edu- cational bodies to Rhodesia were permitted up to three fourths of the remittances made in 1965. 658 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM January SO. The Treasury issued a warning that the regime in Rhodesia was not capable of incurring legal obligations on behalf of the Government of Southern Rhodesia. February 2. Imports of all goods f rom Rhodesia that had remained uncontrolled (mainly manufac tured goods) were prohibited, with the exception of books, newspapers, periodicals, documents, and exposed photographic and cinematographic film. February 2. All exports to Rhodesia became subject to control; in general, applications for licenses would be refused. An open general license, however, permitted the export of books, newspapers, periodicals, documents, and exposed photographic and cinematographic film. February 5. Funds held on Rhodesian Suspense Accounts could be invested, subject to control, or used with specific permission for a limited group of personal payments in the Sterling Area. February 5. Permission was given to authorized banks to open Temporary Resident Accounts for persons normally resident in Rho- desia who were living temporarily in the Sterling Area as students or workers. February 5. All transfers of securities f rom a register in the United Kingdom to a register in another part of the Sterling Area, or con- versely, required prior approval by the Bank of England where the address of the registered holder was in Rhodesia. February 7. An Order was issued banning the export of .tobacco from Rhodesia and the sale of tobacco in Rhodesia with a view to its being exported. February 8. The Treasury directed that the Reserve Bank of Rho- desia was for all the purposes of the Exchange Control Act of 1947 to be treated as resident in Rhodesia. March 10. It was announced that imports of butter in the year begin- ning on April 1, 1966 would be reduced. The total to be authorized initially was set at 435,500 tons, compared with an over-all allowance of 459,000 tons for the previous 12-month period. The largest basic quota, that for New Zealand, remained unaltered. March 15. Imports f rom all sources other than Rhodesia of refined sugar for direct consumption were liberalized. Instead of a fixed quota, open individual licenses were issued to recognized dealers and manu- facturers. March 17. An Order was issued banning the export of sugar f rom Rhodesia and the sale of sugar in Rhodesia with a view to its being exported. 659 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM April 7. The concession whereby visitors to the United Kingdom could, on leaving the country for destinations other than the Irish Republic, take with them any currency notes (except U.K. banknotes in excess of £25) that they had brought in with them was limited in order to restrict the export of Irish banknotes in excess of £250 by such visitors. April 27. A ban was imposed on the sale or use of gold for the manu- fac ture of medals, medallions (including imitation coins), tablets, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions; exceptions to the ban could be allowed for medals, etc., for export and for use as academic and sporting awards. With certain exceptions, the import of medals, etc., was prohibited. The Exchange Control (Gold Coins Exemption) Order 1966 placed further restrictions on the buying, selling, and holding of gold coins minted after 1837. No resident was allowed to hold more than four gold coins minted after 1837, and which were in his possession on April 26, 1966, without special exchange con- trol permission. Sales of post-1837 gold coins also required permission unless made at the current London market price through an authorized dealer in gold or a trader in coin. Authorized dealers in gold could also permit the sale by a resident of gold coins minted af ter 1837 who was obliged to sell gold coins to a coin dealer specifically authorized by the Bank of England. Consideration would be given by the Bank to applications by genuine coin collectors to enable them to maintain or add to their collections; arrangements have been made for dealers and auctioneers who satisfy the Bank of England's requirements to con- tinue to trade in gold coins minted after 1837. No restrictions were imposed on trading in medallions. April 28. Solicitors could open with an authorized bank Special External Accounts to be designated Nonresident Clients' External Accounts for the receipt of funds from, or on behalf o f, clients resident outside the Sterling Area but not resident in Rhodesia. Such funds must be eligible for credit to an External Account, i.e., they must not derive from Blocked Accounts. May 3. The Chancellor of the Exchequer called for a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r ica) and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area. Changes in approval practices were announced for certain other capital outflows. The aim for direct investments in the four Sterling Area countries mentioned above was that for the time being direct investments that exceeded £25,000 a year per project in any one of these four countries 660 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM should be postponed, financed from normally retained profits (i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent pas t ), or financed by appropriate financing from local sources. Firms and individuals wishing nevertheless to proceed with investment plans involving a capital outflow from the United Kingdom to these countries were invited to submit them to the Bank of England, which would examine them to see whether they promised a quick, substantial, and continuing benefit to the U.K. balance of payments. The criterion was that the benefit should be in the fo rm of additional export earnings and/or profit remittances to the United Kingdom such as would at least equal the cost of the original capital outlay within two to three years and would continue thereafter. Exports of capital goods, etc., which were part of the investment itself, being either free of payment or paid for out of capital monies provided for the investment, would not in general count toward the fulfillment of the criterion. The same criterion would apply to direct investments of over £25,000 a year in any one country outside the Sterling Area. (Previously, all direct investment outside the Sterling Area had to be financed with investment currency or by suitable long-term borrowing outside the Sterling A rea; such investment required individual approval, but no standard criteria had been announced.) Consequently, the use of invest- ment currency to finance direct investments outside the Sterling Area— all of which already required formal and specific approval —would be authorized for projects involving expenditure of £25,000 or more for each project in a single country a year only if the projects satisfied t,he criterion of bringing a quick, substantial, and continuing benefit to the U.K. balance of payments. Approval would not normally be given for projects over £25,000 a year which did not meet the criterion, unless they were financed by appropriate borrowing outside the Sterling Area. Exchange control permission would not normally be given for invest- ment in the form of exports free of payment to destinations outside the Sterling Area, except where the criterion was met. Firms p lann ing to make investments by exports free of payment to Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, or South A f r ica were requested to consult the Bank of England. For portfolio investment, the aim of the program was that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institutional investor of either securities denominated in non-Sterling Area currencies or securi- ties denominated in the currencies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned; no interference was intended with day-to-day management 661 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM of portfolios. The voluntary restraint program did not apply to indi- viduals. When borrowing in the United Kingdom by residents of Australia, Ire land, New Zealand, or South A f r ica required consent under the Control of Borrowing Order, such consent would be given only in cases which met the criterion of early, substantial, and continuing benefit to the U.K. balance of payments. Borrowing by residents of other Sterling Area countries would continue to be permitted if it was deemed advantageous to the economy and balance of payments of the country concerned, provided that there was no demonstrable and avoidable detriment to the U.K. balance of payments. Applications by central governments in the Sterling Area or EFTA, by borrowers whose issues were guaranteed by these governments, and by public bodies in less developed Commonwealth countries would continue to be dealt with individually. June 1. New import control arrangements went into effect for bananas of Dollar Area origin; licenses would no longer be limited to bananas shipped direct from the country of origin. July 1. The Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement came into effect. The United Kingdom removed customs duties and other restrictions on substantially all imports originating in Ireland. July 21. Restrictions were imposed on the issue of foreign exchange facilities for travel outside the Sterling Area; restrictions were tight- ened on the export of sterling banknotes and notes denominated in other currencies. For the travel year beginning on November 1, residents of the United Kingdom would be entitled to a travel allowance of £50 a person for private travel outside the Sterling Area. This would cover the cost of non-Sterling Area currencies purchased by the traveler, as well as the cost of hotel and other travel services, except fares, paid in sterling to travel agents in the United Kingdom. Interim arrangements went into effect immediately for the period until October 31. The amount of notes that could be taken out of the United Kingdom by any one resident person to any destination other than the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands was reduced, with immediate effect, to £15 for sterling notes and to a total of £50 for notes denominated in currencies other than sterling. Previously, non-Sterling Area banknotes and Sterling Area notes other than sterling notes could be taken out up to £250 a journey; British banknotes could be taken out up to £25, but no limitation applied for persons traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. 662 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM The interim arrangements included the following. For private travel, up to a maximum for the whole of the interim period of the equivalent of £50 a person could be granted, without regard to the cost of hotel or other travel services paid in sterling in the United Kingdom; where a firm instruction had been received prior to July 21 for the issue of foreign exchange facilities, these could be provided within the rules previously in force, to the extent of the instruction. For travel for reasons of health, the equivalent of £7 a day was granted, to a maxi- mum of £630, each for patient and companion, and for business travel the equivalent of £20 a day, to a maximum of £1,200 a trip. Residents of other territories of the Sterling Area could be granted the same facilities for private travel as residents of the United King- dom; additional facilities could be provided by authorized banks, provided that the approval of the local exchange control authorities was held. Separate instructions would be given to credit card com- panies. July 21. The amount of cash gifts that each individual resident of the United Kingdom could make during each calendar year to indi- viduals and organizations regarded as resident outside the Sterling Area was reduced from £250 to £50. July 21. Authorized banks were no longer permitted to approve applications to make payments to nonresidents in respect of subscrip- tions to credit card companies and others issuing documents entitling the holder to travel services outside the Sterling Area. July 21. The rules governing the transfer of assets of emigrants were revised for persons applying on or af ter this date for emigration facili- ties. Declared assets in excess of £5,000 were restricted for a four-year period f rom the date of redesignation as a nonresident; during that period the funds could be disposed of for non-Sterling Area currencies through the investment currency market, and afterward any remaining assets would be transferable in accordance with the rules then applica- ble to the assets of a nonresident. Previously, emigrants7 assets in excess of £5,000 could be realized at any time through the security sterling market. As a condition of the granting of emigration treatment, all sterling securities owned by an intending emigrant were required to be brought under the control of a U.K. authorized depository; per- mission would be given, however, for any foreign currency securities declared in an applicant's statement of assets to be made freely avail- able to him in his new country of residence. The change did not affect repatriates, who remained entitled to an initial transfer of £5,000 from their declared assets, and annual releases of £3,600 thereafter, at the official rate and retained their facilities to use the security sterling market. 663 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM August 8. The Bank of England issued a directive to foreign exchange dealers reducing, with effect f rom August 30, the ceilings on their permitted positions in non-Sterling Area currencies. October 19. Burma ceased to be a member of the Sterling Area. Sterling accounts of residents of Burma were designated as External Accounts, the kyat became a foreign currency, and securities payable in that currency became foreign currency securities. November 1. Travelers were permitted to exchange for foreign cur- rency outside the Sterling Area any Sterling Area notes which they were entitled to take with them. November 1. Residents of the United Kingdom were entitled during the travel year beginning on this date to a basic allowance of non- Sterling Area currency equivalent to £50 a person (adult or child) for travel from the United Kingdom or from any other part of the Sterling Area to destinations outside that Area, irrespective of the purpose of the trip. Special allotments were made available to cover travel for business and other special purposes. The basic allowance could be used instead of, or in addition to, any such special allotment. Additional facilities granted were the equivalent of £25 for an automo- bile and £15 for a motorcycle. In all instances, credit card facilities formed part of the total allowance. The special allotment for all business or professional travel was £20 a day for up to two months, and that for travel for health reasons was £7 a day for the patient and, where a companion was considered necessary on medical grounds or where the age of the patient warranted, a similar amount for the companion, for up to three months. The cost of travel services paid for in sterling in the United Kingdom, other than the cost of transport forming an integral part of the main journey, generally was deducted from the above allowances. For air and overland tours (including "package holidays") the deduction was the amount charged to the traveler for the tour minus working expenses, return commission, and any transportation element specifically exempt, such as transfers between station and hotel; no deduction was made, however, for one-day return tours f rom the United Kingdom with a V-form content not exceeding £5. For sea cruises, no deduction was made where the vessel was owned by a person resident in the Sterling Area (including such vessels on charter to persons resident outside the A r e a ); for all other sea cruises, the V-form content was established at 20 per cent of the price charged to each traveler for the cruise. The V-form content was also 20 per cent for all cruises on inland waterways. The other travel services for which no deduction was made f rom the travel allowance were transfers between airports or stations and destinations, airport taxes, etc., that were regarded as part of the main transportation cost. 664 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Foreign shipping lines could apply to the Bank of England for exemption from the 20 per cent requirement for cruises; this would be allowed for any cruise where it was shown that either (1) 60 per cent of the running costs of that cruise (excluding capital repayments on the ship) would be spent within the Sterling Area, or (2) that part of the running costs to be spent in the Sterling Area would exceed the total amount collected in passage money from passengers resident in the United Kingdom. November 1. The export by travelers of sterling notes and notes of any part of the Sterling Area to destinations other than the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands was limited to a total of £15; the limit on exports of non-Sterling Area notes by travelers remained at £50. November 4- Authorized banks were requested to refer to the Bank of England exports of U.K. notes to their Sterling Area correspondents where such exports were not in continuation o f, or broadly in line with, regular shipments to the same consignee made prior to April 1966. November 10. The amounts up to which authorized banks could approve payments to non-Sterling Area countries for educational and similar purposes were reduced. Previously, their authority extended to £2,000 a student a year for fees and boarding charges. The new limits were (1) for enrollment and tuition fees, £450 a year for schools and £700 a year for universities; (2) for boarding or accommodation charges, £400 a yea r; and (3) for books and personal and other inci- dental expenses, £150 a year for schools and £400 a year for universities. The Bank of England, however, approved all reasonable requests for exchange in excess of these amounts. November 12. The Open General Import License was amended to make individual licenses necessary for new sacks and bags from the Irish Republic. For certain woven ju te piece goods licensing was made conditional on the production of a certificate from the Irish producers declaring that all stages of manufac ture of the goods in question from ju te fiber had been carried out in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area and that the last stage of manufacture took place in the Irish Republic. November 15. It was announced that, with effect f rom January 1, 1967, the remaining licensing controls over imports of watches and parts would be removed for all sources except the Eastern Area and Rhodesia. November 18. It was announced that a global quota would be applied to imports of coffee from countries not participating in the International Coffee Agreement. November 24. A trade agreement revising and extending the existing trade agreements with New Zealand was signed for the period until 665 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM September 30, 1972. The United Kingdom agreed to admit imports of beef, veal, lamb, mutton, and certain other commodities free of quanti- tative restriction, and it guaranteed access to its home market for a specified annual quantity of butter. New Zealand granted additional tariff concessions on goods of U.K. origin. November 80. The temporary import charge of 10 per cent of the landed value of most imports from all sources was terminated. November 80. The 25 per cent surrender requirement in respect of sales proceeds of foreign currency securities was waived where such securities were sold in order to effect payment of foreign estate duties payable in respect of foreign currency assets comprised in the estates of persons who were at the date of their death resident for exchange control purposes in the United Kingdom. December 21. It was announced that, with effect from January 1, 1967, restrictions on imports from Japan would be eased further and specified textiles would no longer be subject to Japanese voluntary control arrangements. December 23. The Southern Rhodesia (Prohibited Trade and Deal- ings) Order 1966, made under the Southern Rhodesia Act, 1965, came into operation. It prohibited the import into the United Kingdom of certain specified goods exported from Rhodesia, the export of such goods from Rhodesia, the participation by any person in any capacity in the purchase, sale, or processing of such goods, the transport of such goods in British ships and aircraft, and any payment by any person in connection with the export of such goods from Rhodesia. Most of these acts were already prohibited under previous Orders and regulations. The Order applied to payments in the United Kingdom and also to payments outside the United Kingdom by citizens of the United King- dom and colonies ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and by bodies incorporated under the law of the United Kingdom. It prohibited payments for the purposes of export of the specified goods from Rhodesia made either (1) to residents of Rhodesia, or (2) to persons resident outside Rhodesia (whether resident in the Sterling Area or not) where the payment was made by order of or on behalf of a resident of Rhodesia or formed part of a compensation deal connected with Rhodesia. The general permission for transfers from External Accounts to Rhodesian Accounts was withdrawn insofar as such transfers related to the goods specified in the Order. December 81. With minor exceptions, the industrial free trade arrangements of the European Free Trade Association came into operation. 666 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES1 Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15% t grains of gold %0 fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of handling charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold from both official and certain nonofficial sources and sells it abroad only to governments, central banks, and, under certain circumstances, inter- national institutions, for the settlement of international balances and other legitimate monetary purposes; domestic sales are made only for industrial, professional, and artistic use. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on trans- actions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, and those imposed pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 232 on any transfer of funds to Rho- desia for the purposes of activities or dealings in respect of specified commodities originating in Rhodesia or products made therefrom in Rhodesia or elsewhere. The United States notified the Fund on Decem- ber 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Controls The Treasury Department deals with license applications for trans- actions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the Foreign Assets Con- trol Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quotas for certain commodities, including certain wheat and wheat products. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a statutory formula administered by the Department of Agriculture and are prorated among eligible importers under regulations administered by this Department. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. 1In view of certain changes that took place early in 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on January 26, 1967. 667 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Imports and Import Payments The import is prohibited of certain products originating in Rhodesia and exported therefrom af ter December 16, 1966, and of products made therefrom in Rhodesia or elsewhere. Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, or North Vietnamese origin, Chinese-type merchandise from other areas, as well as all goods containing Cuban components, and all goods imported f rom or through Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are subject to license. Import quotas are in effec t, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and cotton products, wheat and wheat products, specified manu fac tu red dairy products, and peanuts. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts and certain cotton and cotton products, the quotas above and those for sugar (pursuant to special legislation) are on a country - of-production basis. Under the Philippines Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955, import duties applicable to the Philippines are 40 per cent of the general most-favored-nation rate on all produc ts; imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas; and for Philippine cigars, tobacco, coconut oil, and buttons, the prefer- ential tar iff rate applies only to a specific quantity of imports. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrange- ment. The Arrangement authorizes importing countries to request exporting countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions. The United States has concluded comprehensive bilateral agreements with respect to the cotton textile trade with cer- tain ma jor supplying countries, as well as a number of restraint arrange- ments with certain other countries for specific cotton textile products. In most of these instances, the exporting country limits its exports of cotton textiles to the U.S. ma rke t; in a few cases, the United States has imposed import restrictions. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, except those imported over- land (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or r a i l ), which are not restricted; in practice imports of residual fuel oil are virtually unrestricted. The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for certain purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license; these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Afr ica. All exports 668 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES to Rhodesia require licenses, and no licenses are generally issued except for food and human i tar ian items. Exports (except designated nonstra- tegic goods) to the U.S.S.R. and the countries of Eastern Europe other than Yugoslavia, and all exports (except phonograph records, publica- tions, and, to Cuba, limited g ift parcels) to Mainland China, Cuba, Nor th Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam, are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials to other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. The licens- ing requirements app l icab le to Poland and Rumania are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugos lav ia). Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have f rom time to time been subject to control for "short supply" reasons; copper is the only commodity currently under "short supply" export control. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohibited to and f rom Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. As regards Rhodesia, they are restricted where they are related to prohibited or licensed transactions. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, except to the extent that the pro- visions referred to above regarding Ma in land China, Cuba,' North Korea, North Viet-Nam, or Rhodesia are involved. U.S. purchasers of foreign securities are subject to an Interest Equal- ization Tax of 15 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 1.05 per cent to 15 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisi- tions of debt obligations, including bank loans, with a period remaining to ma tur i ty of one year or more. Ma jor exemptions from the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed countries,2 purchases f rom other U.S. holders, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a foreign country as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary sys- tem, pursuant to which new or original Canadian security issues are exempt, as are —up to an aggregate amount of US$100 million a year — new securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Japan. A voluntary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establish- ment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in 8 The tax is applicable, however, to Abu Dhabi, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES respect of their foreign assets, and for nonfinancial businesses in respect of selected ma jor transactions with nonresidents. Changes during 1966 January 10. At the request of the State Department, U.S. manu fac- turers agreed to discontinue imports of asbestos and lithium f rom Rho- desia. January 20. An embargo was placed on exports of copper ores and concentrates, copper matte, blister copper, and other unrefined copper of domestic origin to all destinations except Canada. Quotas were estab- lished for exports of all other categories of copper products under vali- dated license control, including refined copper produced f rom domestic materials, copper-base alloy ingots, and semifabricated copper products and master alloys of copper. Quotas would be divided primarily among exporters who had in the past participated in copper exports. Exports of refined copper produced from foreign materials were made subject to license ex-quota. Commodities containing copper could no longer be exported under bulk export licenses. January 28. Importers were asked to stop buying chromite f rom Rhodesia. January 28. Subsidies on exports of certain slaughtered poultry to Austria and Switzerland were temporarily suspended; the subsidy on sales to Switzerland was reactivated on October 19, 1966. February 23. Quarterly restrictions on imports of raw sugar within annual import quotas were removed for the first quarter of 1966. March 7. Export license controls were placed on shipments of cattle hides and calf skins and kips to all countries except Canada. On March 11, export quotas were established for these commodities and it was announced that licensing would be based on past participation in exports of commodities in each quota. Quotas were raised progres- sively during the year and removed on November 7. March 18. Licenses were required for virtually all "U.S. exports to Rhodesia. April 1. Restrictions on imports of residual fuel oil were virtually eliminated; allocations were made not only to established importers but also to others presenting evidence of contracts concluded. April 8. The Federal Reserve Board exempted from its voluntary balance of payments guidelines for nonbank financial institutions the acquisition of foreign equity securities already owned by U.S. investors on March 31,1966. 670 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES June 10. An export subsidy was granted on exports of most kinds of tobacco. June 12. The application of the Interest Equalization Tax was extended to Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, the Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. August 1. New tax regulations were announced covering a wide range of transactions between U.S. companies and their foreign affiliates, and de f in ing rules for allocation of income between foreign and U.S. tax jurisdiction. August 17. The Export-Import Bank announced a loan program for commercial banks, under which export financing would be encouraged by providing loans of up to one year to banks on the basis of their holdings of export debt obligations. September 6. Validated license requirements were placed on exports of a number of strategic commodities to friendly countries other than Canada. October 7. The President announced a series of measures to improve commercial relations with Eastern European countries. They included the reduction of export controls on nearly 400 nonstrategic items, a review of the list of strategic commodities, the exemption of Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia from certain restrictions on Export-Import Bank guarantees of commercial credit for U.S. indus- trial exports, authorization of Export-Import Bank loans for the export of U.S. equipment to the U.S.S.R. in connection with the new Italian- Russian automobile plant, the easing of Polish debt repayment obliga- tions to the United States, and the liberalization of U.S. travel regula- tions for Eastern European countries. November 13. The Foreign Investors Tax Act, generally aimed at removing tax barriers to portfolio investments in the United States, separated investment income from business income for tax purposes, applying a flat nonresident withholding tax of 30 per cent to all income not "effectively connected'7 with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. For countries having tax treaties with the United States, the rate was reduced by varying amounts, generally to 15 per cent for dividends and f rom zero to 30 per cent for interest and royalty payments. U.S. tax exemption for interest paid to foreigners on U.S. bank deposits was continued until 1973 and was extended to foreign deposits in savings and loan associations for the same period. Interest received by foreigners on deposits in foreign branches of U.S. banks would continue to be tax exempt after 1973. The taxation of U.S. estates of foreign nationals was reduced. 671 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES December 13. The Administration announced the extension of the voluntary balance of payments program through 1967, asking for continued cooperation during the period of difficulties in Viet-Nam. The general approach used in the extended programs was the same as that originally adopted in February 1965. The bank program supervised by the Federal Reserve System continued the end of 1966 ceiling for bank loans to foreigners, equivalent to 109 per cent of the December 31, 1964 base for most individual banks; at the beginning of October 1966 the banks had accumulated $1.2 billion "leeway" under the ceiling and this was to be used up only gradually dur ing 1967; 90 per cent was to be used only for export credits and loans to less developed countries. The program for nonbank financial institutions was simplified under a single guideline permitting an increase of 5 per cent for all covered foreign investments of these institutions during the 15 months ending December 31, 1967. For nonf inanc ial corporations, the 1967 program asked for a higher net contribution to the balance of payments through selected ma jor transactions, and, specifically, for a restricted expansion of direct investment capital transactions to a total no greater than 240 per cent of the 1962-64 annual average, compared with a target of an expansion of 270 per cent under the 1966 program for the 1965-66 biennium. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 5. An executive order signed by the President of the United States implemented the UN Security Council resolution of December 16, 1966, imposing mandatory economic sanctions on Rhodesia. The order prohibited the importation of the following commodities originating in Rhodesia and exported therefrom a f ter December 16, 1966 (as well as products made therefrom in Rhodesia or elsewhere): asbestos, iron ore, chrome, pig iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, and hides, skins, and leather. Restrictions were imposed on any transfer of funds to Rhodesia for the purposes of activities or dealings in respect of such commodities. Exports to Rhodesia of arms and ammunition, air- c ra f t, motor vehicles, petroleum and petroleum products, and equip- ment for the manufac ture, assembly, or maintenance of a ircraft or motor vehicles were prohibited. January 26. The President requested authorization to adjust the rates of the Interest Equalization Tax as balance of payments and monetary conditions warranted, so that the effective impact on interest costs could be varied between zero and 2 per cent. 672 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES The Bill submitted to Congress provided that the rate of tax on for- eign stocks would be raised f rom 15 per cent to 30 per cent, e f fec t ive on January 26, 1967, and that the levy on debt obligations, such as bonds and bank loans, would be raised to a range of 2.10-30 per cent, depend- ing on maturity, f rom the current range of 1.05-15 per cent. The Bill also provided for an extension through July 31, 1969 of the tax law, which was to expire on July 31,1967. January 26. The Export-Import Bank extended its credit guarantees and insurance programs to cover sales of U.S. goods and services to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Rumania. 673 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is offi- cially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, plus or minus a com- mission if an inward or outward transfer is involved. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax is payable on all payments equivalent to more than CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except pay- ments made by the Government and those related to exports. The tax is as follows: Tax CFAF 250 CFAF 1,000 CFAF 1,500 CFAF 2,500 CFAF 3,000 CFAF 3,500 Payable on CFAF 10,001-25,000 CFAF 25,001-100,000 CFAF 100,001-300,000 CFAF 300,001-500,000 CFAF 500,001-1,000,000 Amounts over CFAF 1,000,000 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Depart- ment in the Directorate of Commerce. Exchange transactions are han- dled by the other commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Control Department. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department of Commerce; the former require the approval of the Exchange Control Department when they are issued for countries out- side the French Franc Area. Import certificates are issued freely by the Exchange Control Department. 1The CFA franc circulating in Upper Volta is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 674 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries — provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with Ghana. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France, but in Upper Volta these accounts have only limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from EEC countries are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a jo int French-Upper Volta Committee. Under this pro- gram, global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importa- tion are issued. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents (to prove that an order has been placed) are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are, in principle, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, but the authority for such approval has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents f rom profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. The allowance for tourist travel is CFAF 250,000 for each trip, and exchange for business travel expenses is freely granted. Foreign workers may repatriate up to 675 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA 100 per cent of their salaries. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Travelers to other countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union 2 may take out, w i thout limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, w i thout limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for wh ich the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a max imum of F 1,000 in French f rancs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f r an c s, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes require a license f rom the Department of Commerce. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the exchange proceeds. Certain commodities on the prohibited list can be exported in special circumstances only, and they require a license issued by the Department of Commerce or the competent ministry. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within one month from the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due in respect of services from residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, and all income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 f rom foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other 2 The West African Monetary Union comprises Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 676 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Gu inean and Ma l ian currency is prohibited. Capital Cap i tal movements between Upper Volta and other French Franc Area coun tr ies are free of con tro l; those between Upper Volta and all other countries requ ire approval. Law No. 25/61/AN of July 1961 and Law No. 14/62/AN of June 1962 provide p re fe ren t ial treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Under the latter law, two p re fe ren t ial categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with wh ich p re fe ren t ial treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Govern- men t; and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of special importance to the na t ional economy. Law No. 25/61/AN sets up an assistance fund for new industries. Changes during 1966 February 22. Add i t ional imports f rom EEC countries were liberal- ized; these inc luded milk, live plants, various food s tu f f s, and various types of machinery. February 25. A trade agreement with Ivory Coast entered into force wh ich provided for reduc t ions in customs duties and guaranteed the import of a minimum quota of agricultural and industrial products. March 2. The import f rom any source of plastic footwear required a prior license. May 6. The import f rom EEC countries of palm and groundnut oil, certain textiles, watches and clocks, and certain footwear was liberalized. December 15. A new West A f r i c an Customs Union agreement (the UDEAO agreement) came into force, replacing that of June 9, 1959. The other signatories were Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal. 677 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was estab- lished by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange transactions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the Bank of the Republic. All other permitted exchange transactions take place in an interbank f ree market with a freely fluctuating rate. The proceeds f rom basic exports must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, which sells exchange for a limited range of official pay- ments; it also provides exchange to commercial banks at rates close to those obtaining in the interbank f ree market. The Bank of the Republic keeps its buying and selling rates within 1 per cent of the free market rate. On December 30, 1966, the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of the Republic were Ur$75.90 and Ur$77.20 per US$1, respectively, while the interbank f ree market rate was about Ur$76.40 per US$1. A tax of %0 °f 1 Per cen^ is payable on all funds received from abroad. The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracciones), and many imports are subject to surcharges. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the Bank of the Republic. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges and export taxes, holds the prepayments and advance deposits required for many imports, and receives export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral pay- ments agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.1 Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration with the Bank of the Republic prior to placing orders abroad.2 Imports of certain goods not included 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, and Spain. 2 At the end of the year, the import of many commodities subject to surcharges of over 90 per cent remained suspended. On March 15, 1967, this import prohibi- tion was continued for six months, except when the goods originated in other LAFTA countries and were included in Uruguay's concession lists. 678 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY in the lists of freely permitted imports are prohibited; with these excep- tions, imports are not subject to quantitative restriction. The Bank of the Republic makes exchange available for government transactions and, at its own discretion, to public entities as well as its private cus- tomers. It may also make exchange available to commercial banks. Exchange for other transactions may be obtained in the interbank market. Imports are classified in seven categories: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge; goods in the other six categories are sub- ject to a surcharge of 30, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration. With the exception mainly of cer- tain capital goods that cannot be registered unless they are financed abroad for a period of at least three years, all imports require prepay- ments (consignaciones) of 50 or 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value in Uruguayan pesos; the prepayment must be lodged with the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration and is refundab le on applica- tion a f ter six months. For goods sub ject to the 150, 225, or 300 per cent surcharge, an advance deposit of 200 per cent is also required. The advance deposit must be made with the Bank of the Republic at the time the import is registered; it is refunded 180 days later. Imports of all items appear ing in the Uruguayan concession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special concession lists for Ecuador and Para- guay are exempt from advance deposit requirements; some of these items are also exempt f rom surcharges but are subject to the prepay- ment requirements, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. All imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties rang ing f rom 1.5 per cent to 15 per cent'of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clearance. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of %0 of 1 Per cen^ on the peso amount resulting f rom conversion of the f.o.b. va lue at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of Ur$l = US$2.10 (at a rate of Ur$l = US$1 for petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead ). Prepayments, advance deposits, and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many com- modities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an off ic ia l ly assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 30 per cent surcharge are liable to only two thirds of this surcharge if transported in Uruguayan ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Companies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing 679 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY in Uruguay and a fu r ther 10 per cent when t rans fe r r ing this income f rom Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracdones or retentions), which are withheld by the Bank of the Republic. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated m in imum is 25 per cent, while for washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of combing and spinning it is 5 per cent; these percentages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the Bank of the Republic, through banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange, not later than 10 working days af ter shipment has been au thor ized; the proceeds of other exports must be surrendered to an authorized dealer within a period fixed by the Bank of the Republic. For exports of wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum sur- render prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per k i logram have been established for various grades and types. For wool, the minimum f.o.b. values per kilogram are as fo l lows: US$1.30 for greasy wool; US$2.00 for scoured wool; US$1.63 for scoured skirtings; US$2.15 for tops; and US$0.60 for noil and combing by-products. Exports of worsted cloth and clothing receive a 22 per cent export subsidy on the f.o.b. value. Some 20 nontraditional export commodities receive export subsidies of 12 per cent to 20 per cent of their f.o.b. value and a re fund of surcharges levied on imported components. An indirect subsidy on exports of processed wool results f rom a reduction of export retentions by 5 per cent for skirtings, by 7 per cent for scoured wool, and by 12 per cent for tops. All exchange receipts f rom abroad are subject to a tax of %0 °f 1 Per cent- The export retention taxes presently applied to the principal export proceeds are as follows. For greasy and scoured wool and wool tops, Ur$240.00, Ur$369.00, and Ur$397, respectively, per 10 kilograms. Meat retentions are a fixed 33 per cent of f.o.b. values. Exports of certain types of beef-da iry cows and wool ewes are pro- hibited. Exports of wheat are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f rom invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the interbank market. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds 680 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY received from abroad. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either residents or non- residents are f ree; inward transfers are subject to a tax of %0 °f 1 per cent. All outward transfers of private capital must be effected through the interbank market. Changes during 1966 In 1966 the tax of %0 of 1 per cent payable on virtually all remit- tances for purposes other than payments for imports was abolished. January 1. The conversion rate for the calculation of consular charges was changed from Ur$18.00 to Ur$55.00 per US$1. January 7. It was announced that the Bank of the Republic would issue pagares (promissory notes) denominated in foreign currency in respect of certain previous imports for which official exchange had not been made available. January 14> The banks were informed that the import subsidy on crude petroleum would hencefor th be increased or decreased by Ur$15.00 per cubic meter for every peso by which the exchange rate for imports rose over, or fe ll below, Ur$60.00 per US$1. January 21. For a large number of import items the mandatory pre- payment was reduced f rom 100 to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value. All prepayments became re fundab le on application after six months; pre- viously, this period was eight months. February 26. All fore ign exchange dealings not related to import or export transactions were suspended. March 3. The additional import duty on a few commodities was reduced from 15 per cent to 8 per cent; these goods were mainly raw materials and components imported for use by manu fac tu r ing industries producing for the export market. March 17. Exchange proceeds from all export commodities not sub- ject to retention taxes were required to be sold to an authorized dealer within 10 days of the date of shipment. March 17. The Bank of the Republic informed the commercial banks that it was releasing fore ign exchange to them for import payments only. March 24. New retention taxes on the export of sheepskins and hides were established. 681 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY April 14- Import registration was permitted for certain capital goods with foreign financing for at least three years, and for certain other items. April 17. Many of the remaining import prohibitions on items free of surcharge or subject to a 30 per cent surcharge were removed, as well as some of the prohibitions still maintained on imports subject to a 60 per cent surcharge. May 12. The Bank of the Republic commenced a policy of keeping its buying and selling rates within 1 per cent of the freely fluctuating rate in the interbank free market. The official rate was changed from Ur$58.90 buying, Ur$59.90 selling, per US$1 to Ur$64.00 buying, Ur$65.00 selling, per US$1. May 12. The official customs valuations (aforos) of import com- modities were raised by 100 per cent, unless the valuations had been adjusted since August 13,1964. May 12. All remaining import prohibitions on items free of surcharge or subject to a 30 or 60 per cent surcharge were lifted. May 12. The minimum f.o.b. values (aforos) for exports of wool and tops were increased. The retention taxes on exports of greasy and washed wool and on tops were increased. June 9. New official values (aforos) tional products were established. June 10. The period during which advance import deposits were retained was reduced f rom 9 months or 12 months to 180 days. These deposits could henceforth be lodged in favor of the foreign creditor or the commercial bank conducting the trade operation. June 16. Exchange proceeds f rom all exports not subject to reten- tion taxes were to be surrendered to an authorized dealer within a period to be fixed by the Bank of the Republic. July 1. The LAFTA multilateral clearing arrangements went into effec t. Uruguay did not participate since it had not yet signed any reciprocal credit agreements with other LAFTA countries. July 7. Imports of automobile spare parts were freely permitted. Automobiles which had entered the free ports of Colonia and Nueva Palmira before December 21, 1964 could be imported into the rest of the country. July 7. Subject to prior permission by the Bank of the Republic, the import of capital goods could hencefor th be financed abroad for a period of less than three years, provided that the importer made addi- tional advance deposits, for exports of specified tradi- 682 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY August 18. The import prohibitions on a number of items subject to surcharges of 90 per cent or more were lifted. August 23. For purposes of calculating the consular charges on imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead, the rate of the Uruguayan peso was changed from Ur$l = US$2.10 to Ur$l = US$1. September 22. The import prohibitions on a number of additional items subject to surcharges of 90 per cent or more were lifted. September 29. The Bank of the Republic depreciated the official exchange rate f rom Ur$64.60 buying, Ur$64.90 selling, per US$1 to Ur$68.00 buying, Ur$68.30 selling, per US$1. October 6. The Bank of the Republic informed the commercial banks that it would sell them foreign exchange to cover the requirements of their customers both in respect of import payments and for certain other purposes. It would not supply the banks with exchange to replen- ish their own holdings. The Bank of the Republic would continue to purchase all exchange offered to it, regardless of origin; the sale to the Bank of the exchange proceeds of traditional exports remained mandatory. October 6. Commercial banks were required to present daily state- ments to the Bank of the Republic concerning foreign exchange opera- tions in excess of the equivalent of US$500. October 26. The remaining import prohibitions on items subject to a surcharge of 90 per cent were lifted. November 21. The import of a number of automobiles was allowed free of surcharge and prior deposits, provided that they would be used as taxis. November 28. The Bank of the Republic depreciated the official exchange rate f rom Ur$68.00 buying, Ur$68.30 selling, per US$1 to Ur$75.00 buying, Ur$75.50 selling, per US$1. November 28. The retention taxes on exports of wool and tops were increased. December 12. The Bank of the Republic started to issue pagares in respect of import arrears (see January 7, above). December 15. The import prohibition for goods subject to surcharges of over 90 per cent was continued to March 15,1967. 683 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Bolivar or Bs 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transactions take place at the following rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petro- leum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Most other exchange proceeds are purchased by commercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds f rom exports of cacao and co f- fee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in certain circumstances they are eligible for special sub- sidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Central Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, pays a subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange purchased to make payments for imports of wheat and powdered milk. The Central Bank o f fe rs swap facilities under which it buys U.S. dollars at Bs 4.47 and resells at Bs 4.50. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or of Agriculture, depending on the com- modity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to the appropriate transactions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank administers the payment of this subsidy, which is granted only on 'import payments for wheat and powdered milk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license f rom the Ministry of Development and a permit f rom the Import Subsidy O f f ice; exports containing a substantial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a permit from the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Mexico may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Bank of Mexico. 684 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government; the former include fu l ly assembled automobiles. Many textiles and a number of other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions are maintained on these items for protective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a pre- scribed percentage of the amount imported. Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered milk) require permits f rom the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses from the Ministry of Development. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly; exchange for this purpose is purchased f rom commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for the export of some products essential to the domestic economy must be obtained f rom the Ministries of Development and Agriculture. Export permits f rom the Import Subsidy Office are also required if commodities eligible for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a substan- tial component of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an additional payment for this exchange in the fo rm of a subsidy, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports f rom fa l l ing below specified minimum amounts regardless of external dollar prices. On the basis of the prices existing during 1966, such additional payments were being made only for export proceeds derived f rom the lower grades of cacao. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles are freely disposable. Capital All capital t rans fe rs are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or 685 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. Changes during 1966 During the year, further commodities were made subject to a specific import license. January 8. Imports of citrus fruit, bananas, pineapples, and melons were prohibited. February 11. Brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or units of foreign investment trusts and mutual funds was prohibited. March 18. A reciprocal exchange stabilization agreement in the amount of US$50 million or its equivalent in bolivares was concluded for two years between the Central Bank of Venezuela and the U.S. Treasury. July 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Venezuela and Mexico. September 19. The Central Bank introduced swap facilities. The minimum amount for each transaction was US$50,000. Domestic banks, business firms, and private persons were eligible. Each transaction would be renewable. Transactions could be undertaken direct with the Central Bank or through the commercial banks. The exchange that could be covered by such swaps included that obtained under foreign lines of credit by commercial banks and the exchange brought to Vene- zuela by private persons for investment or deposit in the country. The Central Bank guaranteed to buy U.S. dollars at Bs 4.47 and sell them back within 90 days or 180 days at Bs 4.50. Those not having the foreign exchange immediately available could conclude option contracts at the same exchange rates; such options had to be taken up within 10 days f rom the date of the contract in order not to fo r fe it the 1 per cent deposit that was required on the amount of such option contracts. September 30. Venezuela became a member of the Latin American Free Trade Association. November 8. The Fund's holdings of Venezuelan bolivares were provisionally adjusted in accordance with a rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1. 686 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$80.00 per US$1. The official buying rate is VN$79.00 per US$1 and applies to expenditures by foreign governments, international organizations, foreign contractors, and other foreign companies operating in Viet-Nam under contract to foreign governments or international organizations. No sales of exchange are made at the official rate. The official rate plus a Consoli- dation Premium or a Consolidation Tax of VN$38.00 per US$1 applies, in principle, to all other purchases of exchange and to all sales of exchange, giving rise to effective rates of VN$117.00 buying and VN$118.00 selling; however, a subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is granted on sales of exchange for certain study expenses abroad, resulting in an effective selling rate of VN$80.00 per US$1, and a Charity and Assist- ance Subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is granted on charitable donations from foreign governments and international organizations, resulting in an effective buying rate of VN$117.00. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the official market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate-General of Exchange of the National Bank of Viet-Nam. Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under U.S. "project aid" programs require no license but are subject to special contracts or pro- curement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of External Relations and Foreign A id ). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are countersigned by the Directorate- General of Exchange. However, for imports of a noncommercial char- acter valued at less than VN$5,000, the Directorate-General of 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 2, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 687 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency All imports shipped f rom Hong Kong, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in sterling. All other imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources must be settled in U.S. dollars, with the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agreement, to both of which special regulations apply. Special rules are also applicable to imports financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ). All other settlements are made in convertible currencies, mainly in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. There is an inoperative payments agreement with the Republic of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by nonresident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Economy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed f rom Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, be low), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds f rom AID; (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country- financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japanese loans, or French export credit. In prin- ciple, products imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essen- 688 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM tial products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. There is an open general license procedure for most permitted imports. Individual licenses, which are not transferab le, are required for all imports not covered by the open general license procedure. The issuance of licenses for most imports from France is suspended. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include commodities donated under the Colombo Plan, small donations from countries not participating in that Plan, imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and .samples, aviation gasoline, lubricants, and spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports from Cambodia are suspended. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncommunist countries except Cambodia and France; the main exception is that certain goods financed by U.S. aid must originate in specified noncommunist countries (the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philip- pines, Singapore, Tunisia, or the United States). Imports are classified in 18 broad categories. An importer may make application to import goods only in a specified number of categories. Import licenses are not issued for shipments valued at less than US$3,000. Importers who use less than 90 per cent of a license issued for AID-financed imports or less than 97 per cent of a license issued for imports financed from Viet-Nam's own reserves are subject to a penalty. The penalty in the former case may go up to 20 per cent of the value of the commodities licensed. In the latter case, the penalty is determined by the Directorate-General of Exchange on a case-to-case basis. An import license constitutes at the same time an exchange license. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the off ic ial rate plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. A subsidy of 20 per cent is granted on the c.i.f. value (calculated at the rate of VN$80 per US$1) of industrial equipment for new approved investments and of acces- sories and spare parts for existing industrial firms, provided that the import is financed f rom foreign aid received in the form of grants. An "austerity" tax, ranging from 5 per cent to 210 per cent, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports cal- culated at the official rate of exchange. Certain imports also are subject to an "equalization" tax, ranging f rom VN$5 to VN$140 per US$1. 689 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate- General of Exchange. Exchange for all authorized invisibles is sold at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. A subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is applied to transfers for expenses abroad of government-sponsored students. Students are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of China or Hong Kong, and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for housing and for extraordinary expenses. Foreign specialists employed in Viet-Nam may transfer 60 per cent of their salary if their family is abroad, or 50 per cent if they are single or have their family in Viet- Nam; they are also entitled to a special allocation for home leave. Foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 90 per cent of their net annual profit af ter tax, after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises established or expanded after 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law (see section on Capital, below). All dividends declared in Viet-Nam and accruing to nonresidents may be transferred in fu l l, a f ter payment of taxes. Resident nationals may once a year acquire foreign exchange for tourist travel equivalent to up to US$30 a day, depending on their financial status, for a period of up to three months, depending on their destination; children under 12 are entitled to one half of this allocation. These amounts may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. There are special allowances for business travel. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$500 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank at the appropriate rate. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. All exports to communist countries and exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured products origi- nally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1. Exports of rubber are subject to an export tax of 40 per cent, and those of duck feathers to a 690 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM tax of 20 per cent; export taxes are levied on the f.o.b. value calculated at the official rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles The official rate of VN$80 per US$1 applies to exchange sales by for- eign governments, international organizations, and foreign construction companies or other enterprises under contract to foreign governments or international organizations. Charitable transfers by foreign govern- ments or international organizations received a Charity and Assistance Subsidy of VN$38 per US$1. All other proceeds from invisibles are converted at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1. Foreign military personnel and off ic ial U.S. civilian personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("military payment certificates" or MFC's) which can be exchanged for piastres only through official channels; those personnel are not permitted to possess foreign bank- notes or travelers checks in Viet-Nam. There are military banking facilities, however, under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MFC's, or U.S. dollars at two U.S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of VN$500. Foreign military and civilian personnel (government officials) are not permitted to bring foreign banknotes into Viet-Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formali- ties, but fore ign investors must register their capital with the Vietnam- ese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The minimum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt f rom income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the 691 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic invest- ments. The law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment a f ter 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (a f ter 20 years for investment of foreign-owned capital previously held in V ie t-Nam). Initially, an implementing regulation (Exchange Control Notice No. 73) provided that all imports and exports of capital under the law were to be settled at the controlled f ree market rate on the day of transfer, with the excep- tion that capital imports in kind must be calculated at the rate of VN$60 per US$1; from June 18, 1966, however, all imports and exports of capital ( inc lud ing imports in k ind) have been settled at the rate of VN$118 per US$1. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which authorizes the transfer of up to 90 per cent of net annual profits af ter taxes but does not permit disinvestment; such investments are not eligible for the above-mentioned tax exemptions. Enterprises established in 1962 may, subject to the approval of the Investment Committee, be granted the privileges of the Investment Law. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1966) (piastres per U.S. dollar) Buying 79.00 (Official Rate) Expenditures of foreign governments, international organizations, and foreign contractors.2 117.00 (Official Rate plus Consolida- tion Premium of VNS38) Exports.8 Certain charitable donations.2 Expenses of nonresident physical per- sons during their stay in Viet-Nam. All other exchange receipts. Selling 80.00 (Official Rate) No transactions. 118.00 (Official Rate plus Consolida- tion Tax oj VN838) Imports.* Invisibles.5 Authorized capital repatriation. 2 Charitable transfers from foreign governments or international organizations receive a Charity and Assistance Subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 on the VN$79 rate. 8 Exports of rubber and duck fea thers are sub ject to a tax of 40 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of the f.o.b. value calculated at the official exchange rate. *A subsidy of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value calculated at the o f f ic ial exchange rate is applied to imports of certain capital equipment financed by foreign aid. 5 A subsidy of VNS38 per US$1 on the VN$118 rate is applied to transfers for expenses of approved students abroad. 692 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Changes during 1966 January 1. With the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agreement, all imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources had to be settled in U.S. dollars. March 5. The rates of import duty and "austerity" tax on passenger automobiles and trucks were increased sharply. An "equalization" tax (taxe de perequation) ranging from VN$5 to VN$140 per US$1 and payable before customs clearance was levied on imports of a group of semiluxury and luxury goods, including passenger automobiles and trucks; the tax was not applied to imports financed by U.S. aid, imports without foreign exchange, or imports financed with the 25 per cent of proceeds of selected exports that could be used to import certain goods which were not otherwise licensed. March 15. Imports financed by the U.S. AID were under Policy Determination 31 limited to goods originating in the Republic of Ch ina, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philip- pines, Singapore, Tunisia, and the United States; the exporters concerned were paid in local currency. April 30. The "equalization" tax (see March 5, above) was also applied to imports covered by French export credit insurance. May 22. The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic expired. June 18. A new off ic ial rate of VN$80 per US$1 replaced th a t .of VN$35 per US$1. It was applied to expenditures by international organ iza t ions and foreign governments and contractors. All other pur- chases and sales of fore ign exchange were carried out at an effec t ive rate of VNJ118 per US$1 (o f f ic ial rate plus a Consolidation Premium or a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1). The fo l low ing were abol- ished: the controlled free market (where the rate was VN$73.50 per US$1), the Security and Economic Development Tax and the general subsidy of five sevenths of VN$35 per US$1, the special charge and the special subsidy of VN$44.50 per US$1, and the exchange subsidies on minor exports. Previously, the import rate was VN$60 per US$1, and the rate for most private invisibles was VN$118 per US$1. The EFAC procedure allowing exporters of certain commodities to obtain an amount equivalent to 25 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports to import certain commodities not otherwise licensed was discontinued. The export taxes on rubber and duck fea thers were ca lcu la ted at the new o f f ic ial ra te; that on duck fea thers was raised f rom 15 per cent to 20 per cent. An open general license pro- cedure was introduced for certain imports financed by Viet-Nam's 693 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM official exchange reserves and for most imports financed with U.S. AID fund s; the system of allocating import licenses on the basis of indi- vidual importer quotas or points was abolished, and measures were taken to fac i l i ta te the entry of new importers. It was announced that certain import prohibitions would be rescinded. Import duty and "austerity" tax continued to be calculated at the rate of VN$35 per US$1. June 18. A Charity and Assistance Subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 was granted on charitable donations received f rom foreign governments or international organizations. June 18. A subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 was granted on exchange sold for expenses abroad of government-sponsored students. June 18. A Gold Market Stabilization Fund was established. The National Bank was empowered to sell gold bars to authorized banks at prices fixed by the Stabilization Fund. Banks were permitted to resell the gold to jewelers for processing into jewelry intended for sale to the public. The Stabilization Fund's price for sales to banks was initially set at VN$10,500 per tael (about VN$250 per U.S. dollar's worth of gold at the valuation of US$35 an o u n c e ); it was reduced to VN$10,450 on July 25, to VN$10,200 on August 7, to VN$9,700 on August 12, and to VN$9,000 on November 10. July 1. Imports of goods financed by the U.S. AID, other than petro- leum products, could no longer be made on a barter basis. July 9. The "austerity" tax on imports of automobiles was consoli- dated with the import duty thereon into a single new duty levied at the rate of VN$35 per US$1. August 1. Import duty and "austerity" tax were calculated at the new off ic ial rate of VN$80 per US$1. The rates of "austerity" tax and import duty were multiplied by a coefficient of 0.44 in order to main- tain their incidence in piastre terms at the levels obtaining when these taxes were calculated at VN$35 per US$1. August 10. The bilateral payments agreement with Cambodia was terminated. Imports f rom Cambodia were suspended. September 8. A Foreign Exchange Control Law entered into force. It consolidated the principal existing legislation concerning foreign exchange matters. September 19. All imports from Hong Kong, irrespective of their origin, were required to be paid for in sterling. 694 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM September 23. The list of eommodities under open general license was extended; the items added included refrigerators, air conditioners, radios, and television sets. November 1. Imports covered by French export credit insurance were suspended. NOTE.—The following change took place in 1967: January 2. The allocations for many invisibles were increased. That for tourism was raised from up to US$20 a day (subject to a limit of US$1,800 a year) to up to US$30 a day (subject to a limit of US$2,700 a year). 695 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar or Din 12.50 — US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. The Federal Secretariat for F inance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the National Bank administer the exchange con- trol. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of two types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations. Limited authorized banks, which must have a mini- mum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fu l ly authorized credit bank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settle- ment is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has pay- ments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, A lban ia, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, *In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1967 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation as at that date. 696 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Ruman ia, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab R e p u b l i c; (2) in sterling with Mainland Ch ina; and (3) in their respective currencies with Ghana, India, Iraq, and Switzerland. A cer- t a in degree of mu l t i la tera l iza t ion for payments is provided under the b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th Iraq, Mali, and Switzerland. Certain settlements with Colombia, Jordan, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident dinar accounts. One type may be credited with the dinar countervalue of exchange transferred from abroad, and debited for any current payment in Yugoslavia; balances on th is type of account may be transferred abroad. The other type may be cred i ted with dinar amounts realized in Yugoslavia in accordance w i th the regulations, and may be debited only for tourist and living expenses in Yugos lav ia; ba lances on this type of account may not be t ran s fe r red abroad except with special approval. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may open accounts in con- ve r t ib le currenc ies in Yugoslavia. Balances on such accounts may be used for both commercial and noncommercial transactions. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may open w i th the Na t ional Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or d ina rs. Paymen ts to the credit of such foreign currency accounts may be made only by t rans fe rs of the fore ign currency in which the account is denom ina ted. These foreign currency accounts may be debited for all noncommerc ial payments. Transfers f rom them are allowed in the currency of the accoun t; transfers f rom accounts in convertible curren- cies may be made to all countries. Yugoslav emigrants and Yugoslav nationals temporarily employed abroad may ma in ta in fore ign currency accounts at the National Bank or at an authorized bank, both when they are resident abroad and after they have returned to Yugoslavia. Debits and credits to such accounts are sub ject to special regulations; many debits and credits are freely permitted. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected by economic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. Registration is granted to all economic organizations fu l f i l l ing certain minimum conditions. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most ma jor industrial producers are registered. Unregistered economic organizations must channel their orders through registered economic 697 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA organizations which import on their behalf and on their account. In certain cases, the import of basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by a number of economic organizations acting as agents of the State Food Administration. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five categories: LB —liberalized goods; LBO —condition- ally liberalized goods; GDK —goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK —goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d ina rs ); and D—imports subject to ad hoc licensing. More than 1,600 items (out of a total of over 4,300) are classified under LB; protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the LBO, GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and will not be subject to any quantitative restrictions. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts; they also include certain consumer goods. In 1967 goods imported under the LB regime are expected to account for some 25 per cent of total imports. Exchange for payments for LB imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement. The LBO regime is intended to introduce greater flexibility for trade in the principal commodities exchanged with payments agreement countries and to achieve balanced trade with bilateral countries. The import requirements for all commodities from bilateral countries, including those on the LBO list, are determined in consultation between the authorities and the economic organizations mainly con- cerned. On the basis of import proposals made by the economic organi- zations, the authorities will negotiate bilateral agreements with the partner countries so as to ensure that required imports will be available. This will then permit licensing of Yugoslav exports to these countries for such amounts as are consistent with the principle of achieving balanced trade with bilateral countries. Once agreement has been reached with bilateral partners with respect to the commodity lists, the economic organizations that have previously expressed their interest in importing from a bilateral country a specified amount of goods on the LBO list must formally undertake to import those goods. To this effect they enter into contracts with authorized banks for the purchase of the necessary bilateral currencies. Once these contracts are con- cluded, the economic organizations involved and all other importers are permitted to import freely any commodities on the LBO list f rom countries that do not have bilateral agreements with Yugoslavia 698 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA against payment in convertible currencies which will be made freely available against payment in dinars. Imports of goods listed as LBO are estimated to account for about 23 per cent of total imports in 1967. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, some raw materials, and some types of capital equipment, and it is expected that in 1967 imports of commodities on this list will amount to about 45 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several different procedures. Each importer of raw materials or consumer goods receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any goods listed as GDK. For certain importers the authority to use their allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports they have made (import-export linking). Major exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports settled in convertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to retain 100 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds and may use these funds for imports of raw materials and other production materials for their own needs. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds, funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers7 credit. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. In 1967 they are expected to account for some 60 per cent of total imports of equipment.2 Economic organizations may acquire foreign exchange corresponding to 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products,8 are subject to maximum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agree- ment countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotia- tions among the economic organizations.4 Excluding wheat imports, it 2 The exchange quota for imports in 1967 of capital equipment for special pur- poses is the equivalent of Din 1,437.5 million. 8Some of the principal quotas for 1967 are as follows: wheat^-850,000 tons; rice—45,000 tons; sugar—100,000 tons; raw coffee—28,000 tons; cigars and ciga- rettes—Din 1,200,000. * In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations, within the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. 699 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA is estimated that imports under this procedure will amount to only about 1 per cent of imports in 1967. Goods on list D comprise such minor items as gunpowder, ammun i- tion, and opium. Import licenses are requ i red on ly for list D com- modities. Such licenses do not imply the r ight to pu rchase fo r e ign exchange; the economic organ iza t ions must supply the exchange f r om their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import freely any type of commodity, provided that it has been paid for f rom the ir fo re ign earn- ings or f rom their foreign exchange accounts kept in Yugos lav ia; for imports on list D, however, a license is required. They may import motor vehicles, provided that they show evidence that payment has been made f rom a fo re ign exchange account he ld at the Na t ional Bank or an au thor ized bank in Yugoslavia. If they have spent at least five years abroad and are re turn ing for permanent residence, no such proof is necessary. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, inc lud- ing transportation, are f u l ly liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made f ree ly available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are free ly t rans fe rab le. Payments in respect of royalties are l ibera l ized on the basis of rec iproc i ty. The National Bank may sell fo re ign currency up to the equ iva lent of US$32 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for unspec if ied personal expenses. The Na t ional Bank may sell any amount of fo r e ign exchange in respect of a l imony granted by court order and for certain specified purposes (up to the amount of the actual expenses). There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$32 for tourist travel abroad. Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allocations to enable them to sell organized tours ab road against dinars. Payments for other invisibles may be made f rom the remitter's own fore ign exchange funds (e.g., f rom retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, from specific annual a l loca t ions ); when such exchange is not available, payments for invisibles that have not been liberalized are subject to the approval of the National Bank. Not more than Din 50, in denom ina- tions of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may br ing in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. 700 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exports and Export Proceeds W i th minor exceptions, exports are free of license. Exports to coun- tries with wh ich Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may also be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approval), Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an under tak ing to import f rom such countries a specified quantity of other goods, or to export a specified quantity of the same or other goods to convertible currency countries. Proceeds f rom exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this ru le. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to fore ign exchange sight deposit a c coun ts wh ich the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; all convertible currencies may be credited to one account, but separate accounts must be established for each bilateral currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles, or be sold to an au tho r ized bank. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the rest may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and cannot earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with au tho r ized banks. The permitted retention rates vary accord ing to the type of export concerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic o rgan iza t ion concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past y e a r; the basic rate is 7 per cent. In some instances ( f o r e i gn tourist services, sales of newly mined gold to the National B a n k ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the da te on wh ich the claim is payable but need not be surrendered. Va r ious re ten t ion quo ta rates app ly to receipts f r om services. They may be used for paymen ts abroad connected with the ac t iv i t ies of the econom ic o r g a r i i z a t - on conce rned, in c lud ing paymen ts for purchases of e q u i pm e nt and o th er ma te r ial for i ts own needs. The re ta ined exchange is not t r a n s f e r a b le to o ther economic organ iza t ions, but it can always be sold to au tho r i z ed banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. 701 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia, in which they may deposit savings from salaries, per diem reimbursements, fellowships, and individual earnings obtained while staying abroad. Up to 30 per cent of family assistance, personal gifts, alimony, pensions, and other periodic receipts from abroad may be deposited in foreign currency accounts; inheritances not exceeding the equivalent of Din 100,000 may be so deposited in fu l l, and 30 per cent of larger inheritances. These accounts may be used freely for the per- sonal needs of the account holder and of close members of his fam i ly; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by authorized trade organiza- tions to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in convertible exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption f rom turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Certain goods may be sold at a 10 per cent discount to residents paying in convertible exchange exempt from surrender requirements. Not more than Din 100 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fu l ly author- ized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quotas, or their foreign exchange amortization allocations. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank or a fu l ly authorized bank. Such loans must ordinarily be repaid with currency obtained by the economic organization as export retention quotas and foreign exchange amortization allocations. All other transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. The investment income of Yugoslav economic organizations earned abroad is subject neither to repatriation nor to surrender requirements. Residents are obliged, however, to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved, but economic organizations participating in foreign enter- prises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. 702 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA A decision of the Federal Executive Council on October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Changes during 1966 January L New regulations entered into effect concerning the opening of foreign exchange accounts by economic organizations; the accounts could be credited with exchange received from linked import-export transactions, retention quotas, and similar sources. January L A new monetary unit was introduced. The new dinar was equivalent to 100 old dinars. February 24. Banknotes in new dinars, in denominations of Din 5 or less, could be taken out and brought in by travelers, within the existing limits for the import and export of domestic currency by travelers. March 17. Changes were made in the percentages of export retention quotas applicable to various types of goods and services, and the use of retained exchange was permitted more liberally; the retained exchange could also be ceded to other economic organizations, provided that there were links between their production and that of the exporter. March 24. A trade agreement of the most-favored-nation type was signed with Costa Rica. The agreement entered into force on the same date. It stipulated that payments would take place in U.S. dollars, sub- ject to technical arrangements agreed upon between the two central banks. July 21. The 1962 Law on Trade in Goods and Services with Foreign Countries was amended. The amendments made it possible for any eco- nomic organization to be registered as authorized to engage in foreign trade, provided that it met certain minimum requirements in respect of working capital, etc. Prior approval of such registration by central organs was no longer required. August 25. Yugoslavia became a fu ll contracting party to the GATT; Yugoslavia had acceded provisionally to the Agreement in November 1962. October 8. A decision on the balancing of trade with clearing coun- tries went into effect. It empowered the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade to make its approval for exports of goods on bilaterally agreed quota lists for 1967 and 1968 to clearing countries dependent on the aim of achieving balanced trade with bilateral countries. When such 703 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA approval was sought by more than one enterprise, priority could be given either to enterprises that were significant exporters to nonbi- lateral areas or to enterprises that made significant imports f rom the bilateral country in question. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1967: January 1. A new Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions was applied, which had entered into force on July 28, 1966, rep lac ing the 1965 Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions and Payments Regula- tions. A Law on Credit Transactions with Foreign Countries also went into effect on this date. On the basis of these laws, many comp lemen tary provisions were published in the second ha lf of 1966 and became effective on January 1, 1967. Under these regu la t ions, the surrender requirement was abolished for most foreign exchange receipts. A con- siderable proportion of imports f rom convertible currency countries was liberalized, and so were many invisibles. Many complementary provisions had entered into force late in 1986. Other implementing regulations took effect on January 1,1967. 704 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Zambian Pound or £Z 1 = US$2.80. The authorized banks base their rates for other cur- rencies on the current London market rates. On December 31,1966, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.79% buying, and US$2.781 /4 selling, p e r £ Z l. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Foreign Trade, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian pounds, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Au thor ized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zamb ia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zamb ian pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian pounds f rom an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Zambian pounds, sterling, U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds, with authorized payments by residents, and with transfers from other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, 705 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zambian pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are desig- nated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with author- ized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to author- ized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontrans- ferable capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to non- residents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence; such interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, however, is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports from any source of a few items listed in an open general license do not require individual licenses. These goods are mainly certain oil products, coal and coke, personal and household effects, samples, and diplomatic shipments; the general license also covers imports of many goods provided that they do not exceed £Z 25 in value. All other goods require an individual import license, regardless of the country of origin. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zamb ia; special arrangements are in force, however, for payments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the 706 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rho- desia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £Z 10 a day for an adult, with a maxi- mum of £Z 450 each calendar year, and £Z 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of £Z 225 each calendar year. The allowance is cumulative for a period of not more than three years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years are permitted to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling Area countries if they were recruited out- side Zambia and one third if recruited in Zamb ia; applications for remittances to other countries are usually approved if remittance is made to the applicant's normal country of residence. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facilitate small payments, individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to £Z 10 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities. Travelers may not take out more than £Z 10 in Zambian currency notes and the equivalent of £Z 10 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods require an export license. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic mate- rials.1 For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except in respect of travelers from the Democratic Republic of Congo, there is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £Z 10 in Zambian currency notes may be imported. The import of old 1 Implements of war, lead in any fo rm, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. 707 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Southern Rhodesian and Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland currency notes is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country f rom sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zamb ian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed £Z 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of £Z 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed £Z 4,000 on departure, together with £Z 250 for each child, up to a maximum of £Z 5,000 for a fam i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of £Z 3,000 together with £Z 250 for each child up to a maximum of £Z 4,000 for a fam i ly unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed £Z 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of £Z 1,500. Persons who have been employed on a contract basis and whose length of continuous residence has not exceeded five years are allowed to remit all their savings to their new country of residence. Persons who have been residents for longer than five years are normally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zamb ia; in addition to their emigration allowance, they may remit gratuities, compensation payments, and terminal benefits. Changes during 1966 January 4- A new single-column customs tar iff was app l ied, which removed all Commonwealth tar iff preferences. The tariff was subse- quently enacted on Apr il 29,1966. February 10. Persons recruited outside Zambia on a contract basis of not more than five years could remit only one half of their earnings, 708 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA and those recruited in Zambia only one th ird; previously, two thirds could be remitted to Sterling Area countries in each case. March 7. An initial par value for the Zambian pound of £Z 1= US$2.80 was established with the International Monetary Fund. April L The t ran s fer to Rhodesia of the net earnings accruing in Zambia of Rhodesia Railways was discontinued. April 19. The Control of Goods (Import) Open General Licence Order, 1966 replaced the 1965 Order. The import without a specific license continued to be permitted of certain oil products, coal and coke, personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and most goods not exceeding £Z 25 in va lue; the new open general license in fact imposed a limit of £Z 25 a consignment on goods imported with- out a specific license by air f re ight or parcel post. April 19. The Control of Goods ( Impo r t) Open General Licence Order, 1966 replaced the 1965 Order. It permitted the export of exposed cinematographic film, personal and household effects, samples, and, up to a va lue of £Z 25, any other goods (except implements of war, lead in any fo rm, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags). April 25. Following the announcement by two ma jor producers of copper of their decision to abandon their fixed selling price for copper and to base their prices on those quoted on the London Metal Exchange, the Government enforced an export tax on all copper sold at more than £Z 300 a ton; the rate was 40 per cent of the amount by which the average mon th ly London Metal Exchange price for copper exceeds £Z 300 a ton. The tax was subsequently enacted on September 16,1966. May 4. Zambia and seven other East A f r ican countries (Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Tanzan ia, and Uganda) signed a p re l im ina ry agreement on the establishment of an East A f r i c an Eco- nomic Community. Somalia and the Sudan were expected to sign later. May 18. The Government refused Rhodesia Railways' request that payment be made in advance, in convertible currency other than sterling, for all exports of copper and all imports transported over these railways. Payments due to Rhodesia Railways continued to be credited to Blocked Accounts in Zambia. May 20. The open general license for imports was amended so as not to app ly to mu l t ip le consignments that in the aggregate exceeded £Z 25 in va lue. May 24. The export of copper was suspended. May 81. The au tho r ized banks were instructed to re fuse applications for foreign exchange to pay freight on goods moving, and to move, on 709 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Rhodesia Railways in Rhodesia unless the import license authorizing the entry of the goods was endorsed "Essential Supplies." July 22. The Government of Zambia announced the resumption of exports of limited tonnages of copper through Beira on Rhodesia Rail- ways. Zambian producers were to pay the freight charges up to the Zambian-Rhodesian border only. No exports on this basis were in f a ct made. August 3. Copper shipments through Rhodesia were resumed. The purchasers would make payment to continental European banks, which would in turn pay the freight charges in foreign exchange to Rhodesia Railways. August 16. Residents holding funds or securities outside Zambia were required to apply for a once-for-all authority to hold and use these assets and the income f rom them. November 4- Except for licenses issued for the importation of goods by parcel post, goods could not be imported by rail unless there were endorsed on the license by the issuing authority the words "ES (Essen- tial Supplies) via Rhodesia Railways" or "ES via Lobito Bay." The endorsement would entitle the importer to claim from his bank the foreign currency necessary to pay all rail charges. 710 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at date of I * 5 « § 2 * a S ! I a 3x . ~o ^,0 iltllljl! Utility t S r J jp £r 3 3 ^ JM o 2 3 & oj as o)1^ 5?ra ^ _ ^ _ ^ _ ^ _< w ?.??.?_!?.!? 5.5? 5.5. - x xx x- x xx x x x x x j- x jc x x - x x xx x x x x - x- x - x x xx x x - x- x - x x - - - x - x - - x - - x - from x - - - -x - - - - - -- -x x- x _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ - - x - -- - - - - - -- 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Agreed p ar value exists 4. P ar value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value ( a) f i x ed rate (b) freely f l u c t u a t i ng rate ( c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different export rate(s) x - - - -- x x - - - - - 8. More than o ne rate f or imports x - - - -- - x - - - -- 9. More than one rate for exports x - - - -- - x - - -- - 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 1 2. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges 1 6. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 x x x x -x x x x x x -x - x - x -- - - - - x -x - x - x x -x - - x x xx x x - - xx - x - x - - x x- - - x - -- - - - - - -- x- x - x - -- _ - -x- -- -- - x x x x - - x x x x - x xx x x x x xx - x x x x -x xx - x x - x- - x x x x -x xx - x __ -- _- -- -- - - xx xx -x For footnotes, see page 717. 712 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Countries' Exchange Systems l country survey) 2 A ^ 2 *+- .2 O **-" £.2 g g.« ,0 8 ""^5 «4-H ^.« £ |f a ill I ill i fl III 1 11 S I 111 1 1 1 L Pc ! j i ! ^ o o ^ oM^ o > > r f a o ^ o ^ : S . S £ c 3 a >1-L H, £ ! * i : ; 3 3 3 c « oo OO OU O O O P PQ W W W fe &H O O O O 3 O O S 3E -- -- xx xx x- x- -- -- - x - - -x - x - - x -x - - x - x x xx 1 x - x x x- x - x x - x- x x - x - - -- 2 - x x - xx x x x x x -x x x x - x x xx 3 - x x - xx x x x x x -x x x x - x x xx 4 X X X • X " X - - -- -- -- - x- x- - x - - -- x- - - - -- - _ _ - x - -- -- X- X X - - -- X- - - - -- - - - - - - -- -- x- - x - - -- x - - - - -- - - - - - - -- 8 X Y A xx xx x - x x -x - x x x - x- x x x x x - -- xx xx x - x x xx - x x x - x- x x x x x - -- XX XX - X X X X- X X X X - X- X X X X X - - X 12 -x xx - - - x x- - - - x - -- x x - x - - -- -- xx - x x x x- x - - x - -- x x - x - - -- 5 v^/ (b) (c) 6 7 Q V • 10 11 13 14 XX X X X X — ID x- x- x - - - -x x x - - - -- x x x - x - -- 16 XX -- XX X X X X XX X X X X - X- X X X X X - -- -x - - x x - - - - - - x x- x - - - x - - x !8 x~ xx x x - x x- x x - x x xx - x x - x - x- 17 19 713 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • Principal Features of Member (as at date of +9 « rt T3 i s a •NJsff l l^ l l l l o g q S S S w - M ^ r t a J O ^ ^ S ^ r t qj ^ ^> 8 -^ TJ g x - x - xx x x x - x x - x - x - - x x x - xx x x - x x x x x - x x x x - x -x x x - x x x x x - x x x x - x -- x _ _ _ _ - - _ - _ _ _ _ _x- _x _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 1. Article VIII status 2. Article X IV status 3. Agreed p ar value exists 4. P ar value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value (a) fixed rate ( b) freely f l u c t u a t i ng rate ( c) pegged rate f rom x x x x x - x - x - x x x x - -- - - x - x x - - - x - - - - - x- 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or a ll invisibles 7. Import rate(s) d ifferent export rate ( s) x - x - - - - - - - - - - - - x- 8. More than one rate for imports - _x- - - - - - - - - - - - x- 9. More than one rate for exports - _x- - - - - - - - - - - - x- 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 1 2. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges 1 6. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 x x x x x - x - - - - - - - - xx _ _x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _x_ _ _ __ - - x x - - - - - - x - - x - x- x x x x x x x x x x x x x x - -- x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x -- x x x x x x - x x x x x x x - x- x x - - - x - - x x - x x - x -- - - - x6x x - x x - - x x - - -- x x x - x - x - - - - x - - - -x For footnotes, see page 717. 714 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution° Countries' Exchange Systems l country survey)2 M 03 *§ g i J i i J iS iH i ! l , i? i i i J r i ! i lI g a ^ - S s s l l s t i r l l l f l a J l l l l l i l l il .5 _ __ _ _ _ _x_ _xx - x - - - - x - x - - - x - -- 1 x xx x x x x - x x -- x - x x x x - x - x x x - x x- 2 x x- x x - - x x - xx x x - x x x x x x x x x x - xx 3 x x- x x - - x x - xx x x - x x x x - - x x x x - xx 4 X X X X X X 5 (.^v / u Principal Features of Member (as at date of - 1 1. "3 -as §o rC3 bfl c! < j rQ .2 "^ |2 c fl 1 g d g. § S 2 *5 S c3 a TJ 0 3 0; N rs o •£ o •£ j£ S 1 1 I •§ '§ rk" § 5 » -^ § 1 a C/2 O2 GO GO 02 GO C/2 H E-" E-" H -S . 2 -I fc| E-< H P x xx x xx x xx - - - - x x- x x x x - -x x x xx x x x x x xx x x -x x x x x x x- x x -x 1. Article VIII status 2 . Article X IV status 3. Agreed p ar value exists 4. P ar value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value ( a) f i x ed rate ( b) freely f l u c t u a t i ng rate ( c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different export rate(s) x - - - -- x _ _ _- _ _- 8. More than o ne rate f or imports x - - - -- x _ - _- _ __ 9. More than o ne rate f or exports - - - - -- x _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _x_ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ x _ _ _- x - - - -- from - x - 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 1 2. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 8 For footnotes, see page 717. X X X X - -X X - XX X XX x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x xx x - xx x xx x - x x - - x _ _ _- x x - x - x x x xx _ _ _- x x- - - - x - - x _ _ _- x x- - - - x - - x _ - -- - x- x x x x x -x - x - - - -- x x xx x - xx x xx x -x x x - - x xx x - x- - x5x 716 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Countries' Exchange Systems l country survey )2 o -"3 in bfl $ c* & „ 2 3p3 |> .*i! H i i i l l l ii £ ^ £ £ 0 . 5 8 . 2 33 P P ^ ; D £ > > > H S3 — x x x J Z J I ^ J ^ * *^ x x x - xx xx - x x - - - - xx 1 A ^ 3 4 5 — - - - - - - -- (a) _ (b) /• Footnotes to Analytical Appendix. i Practices ind ica ted as existing do not necessarily app ly to a ll transac t ions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1966. Wh e re t he da te is a d i f f e r e nt one, th is is ind ica ted in a foo tno te. 3 P a ym e n ts to member coun tr ies. Re- s t r ic t ions o ther th an res tr ic t ions imposed f or secu r i ty reasons. 4 Pa rt of French Franc Area or Sterling A rea. 