 E I G H TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1957 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY FUND Eighth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1957 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 1, 1957 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ran sm it to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Eighth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On beha lf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appre- ciation of the cooperation of the members in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PER JACOBSSON Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PAST I I. Introduction II. Recent Developments in Exchange Restrictions General Developments Increase of Transferability Dollar Discrimination Bilateral Arrangements Multiple Currency Practices Other Changes III. Summary PART II Explanatory Note Countries Operating Under Article XIV Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Denmark VII Page 1 3 3 5 6 6 7 8 10 13 17 21 29 34 40 49 51 62 65 71 78 83 90 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic of Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Italy Japan Jordan Korea, Republic of Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay Peru Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South A f r ica United Kingdom Uruguay Viet-Nam Yugoslavia v i ii Page 103 110 118 121 127 139 150 155 160 164 171 181 186 190 196 203 210 214 218 220 233 237 242 248 253 256 262 268 271 274 280 284 296 303 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Page 319 320 323 325 327 329 331 333 335 336 338 343 346 349 352 353 355 358 361 363 367 369 373 "Article VIII Countries" Canada Cuba Dominican Republic El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Mexico Panama United States Venezuela • Nonmember Countries Cambodia Irish Republic Laos Liberia Libya New Zealand Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Sudan Switzerland Tunisia IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction As the Fund completes its eleventh year of operation, it is able to report further progress in the relaxation of exchange restrictions, although the progress in the past year was not at the same rate as in preceding years. The process of freeing trade and payments was con- tinued in spite of a reduction in the international reserves of certain important countries. In the Annual Report of the Executive Directors published in 1956, it was observed that "foreign exchange restrictions impose a less serious obstacle to international commerce today than at any time since the outbreak of World War II." Restrictions —and these include restric- tions on trade as well as on payments —have been relaxed still further since that observation was made. At the present time, therefore, the Fund can report that further progress has been made toward its objective of establishing a fu l ly multilateral system of payments. Against this it is to be noted that a large majority of Fund members still retain exchange control —although with widely differing degrees of restrictiveness in its application—and that in many instances it is not possible to predict an early establishment of a truly multilateral payments regime. At present, member countries, so f ar as their restrictive practices are concerned, can be classified broadly as follows: In Central and North America there are eleven countries with convertible currencies that do not avail themselves of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV of the Fund Agreement and which maintain minimal exchange restric- tions, if any. In Western Europe, some countries have so liberalized trade and payments that it appears they would be able, without any very significant readjustment, to participate in a general move to establish a regime of fu ll convertibility. Gradually approaching this position are the United Kingdom and a number of other Western European and Sterling Area countries, in which stable unitary exchange rates predominate but restrictions are applied to limit certain imports, with a lessening but still significant distinction between currencies of payment —particularly between dollars and other currencies. Nonresi- dent holders of currencies of the countries in this group are generally able to obtain dollars at rates close to parity. Outside Europe and North and Central America, several countries, of which Lebanon, Peru, and Thailand are examples, have for some time maintained liberal 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS nondiscriminatory import and payment policies which come very near to full convertibility. Finally, there are countries that retain rela- tively elaborate systems of exchange control, including complex sys- tems of multiple rates and bilateral arrangements, and often distinguish between commodities as well as between countries and currencies of payment. For these countries, considerable further progress would have to be made before participation in a general move to a liberal and convertible regime could be contemplated. The present Report covers the period since the end of April 1956. Part I gives a brief general survey of developments in exchange restric- tions throughout the world. Part II describes the main features of each member's restrictive system as at the end of 1956, and includes brief descriptions of the exchange systems of member countries not availing themselves of the transitional arrangements. In addition, sur- veys of certain nonmember countries are included. Important changes made in the early part of 1957 are also reported. 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IL Recent Developments in Exchange Restrictions General Developments The trend toward reduction in exchange restrictions, which has con- tinued for some years, has brought a considerable degree of freedom to the arrangements governing international trade and payments. For some countries, the remaining steps will be greater freedom of capital transfers and the complete abolition of exchange restrictions, together with acceptance of full convertibility. It is noteworthy that the process of relaxation, although slowed down by the international tensions which developed during 1956, was not halted, but continued with certain exceptions during the year. This further progress was attained for the most part by a continuation of trends discernible in previous years: areas of transferability were further widened, bilateral arrangements were liberalized, lists of goods which could be imported free of quotas were further extended, regulations governing payments abroad were further simplified. On the other hand, multiple exchange rate systems in various countries continued without fundamental change, with the exception of Bolivia, which unified its exchange rate structure. A few European countries increased restrictions during the past twelve months, but these were exceptional cases; most European coun- tries made appreciable progress toward a more liberal system of trade and payments. Japan and Argentina achieved an appreciable amount of liberalization in their payments systems by substituting transferable payments arrangements for bilateral arrangements. In other countries also some progress was achieved, but the direction of developments was not so clearly defined. The modification of bilateral arrangements made possible by a greater degree of transfer- ability of currencies affected a good many countries. Some also achieved further reductions in restrictions by increased use of free exchange markets. On the other hand, a few countries met internal and external difficulties by intensifying their exchange restrictions. A discernible trend, in part continued from previous years, was that of seeking to reduce restrictions on a regional basis as a method of progressing toward wider systems of multilateral trade and payments. In addition to the continuing efforts of OEEC countries to liberalize trade within that area, a new regime of trade and payments was estab- lished between Argentina and eleven European countries (the "Paris 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Club") j1 and three more European countries (Austria, France, and Italy) joined the arrangements which had been set up in the previous year under which Brazil placed its transactions with a number of European countries on a multilateral basis (the "Hague Club")-2 Another regional development is the signing of a treaty by the governments of six continental European countries establishing a Euro- pean Economic Community linked by a common market.3 There have also been discussions within the OEEC on the establishment of a wider free trade area. The Scandinavian countries have continued negotiations for a customs union. Regional programs among groups of Latin American countries have also been discussed, involving in one case a customs union among countries of Central America and in the other a multilateral payments arrangement among a group of countries in South America. The past year has been especially noteworthy for the efforts made by member countries, including some faced with balance of payments difficulties, to find more fundamental remedies for their problems, and thus to avoid any intensification of exchange restrictions. There has been a growing awareness of the need to strengthen fiscal measures as well as monetary measures in order to fo r t i fy the internal economy, and to curb excessive demand so as to relieve pressure on the balance of payments and to reduce the need for exchange restrictions. Another measure that countries have taken to avoid the imposition of exchange restrictions has been to mobilize sufficient foreign exchange reserves to withstand temporary pressure upon their currencies. An important example in the past year was the decision of the United Kingdom to meet a sudden crisis of confidence in sterling in other ways than by an intensification of exchange restrictions. The United Kingdom in December 1956 obtained from the Fund a drawing of $561,470,000 and a stand-by arrangement for $738,530,000, to meet the pressure on its currency. The fact that the United Kingdom avoided a reimposition of trade and payments restrictions,played an important part in sustaining the momentum toward continued liberali- zation of payments regimes in other countries throughout the world. 1 As at April 24, 1957, these countries were Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 2 As at April 24, 1957, the countries participating in these arrangements were Austria, Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United Kingdom. 3 These countries are Belgium, France, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS There was a further extension of the transferability of the currencies of the non-dollar world, on which the reduction of much discrimination and bilateralism depends. The reappearance of seriously inconsistent cross rates was avoided, so that in those countries where free exchange markets exist trade has not been distorted by disorderly exchange rate quotations. Following upon the payments difficulties encountered dur- ing the past year, particularly by the United Kingdom, rates for trans- ferable, but inconvertible, currencies in free markets fell somewhat; however, the discounts remained generally within a range of 1% per cent of parity, and thus not only was a resurgence of so-called commodity shunting avoided, but there were no serious disturbances to payments. Increase of Transferability Exchange discrimination among non-dollar countries was fur ther reduced during the year by a continued extension of facilities for transferring their currencies, such as had been established earlier for sterling and the deutsche mark. Belgium-Luxembourg, Italy, the Netherlands, and Sweden all established transferable currency areas for their currencies. The Federal Republic of Germany added several countries to the transferable DM area, usually in the process of revising bilateral agreements in such a manner as to eliminate bilateral restric- tions on payments with new participants in the transferable DM area. The Western European countries have, with few exceptions, given to residents of all non-dollar countries the facility of exchanging balances on their nonresident accounts into other currencies in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement. Through the facilities thus granted and the use of the free exchange markets for transferable sterling, it is generally feasible for nonresident holders of a number of European currencies to convert them into dollars at a fairly slight discount. Another important development was the creation of a new system of payments between Argentina and several European coun- tries, as mentioned above. These particular arrangements provide for the interchangeability by the Argentine authorities of the currencies of the European countries concerned, so that discrimination among them respecting Argentine trade and payments is to a large extent eliminated. Finally, the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement operat- ing in Europe (see Fifth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, pages 15-16) was extended to include dealings in Austrian schillings and transactions with Austrian banks. During the year, the limit for forward exchange transactions under this arrangement was extended from three months to six months (with the exception of transactions 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in French francs or with banks in France). Most of the participating countries have extended similar facilities to banks in Finland. Dollar Discrimination Continued progress was made toward liberalization of dollar imports, particularly by continental European countries. Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Norway, Sweden, and France announced increased liberalization of such imports. Ceylon added several com- modities to its dollar import list, with the result that its import discrimination against the dollar area has virtually ended. In these and other countries, a lessening of dollar discrimination has also occurred through increased liberalization in the administrative appli- cation of trade and exchange controls. Bilateral Arrangements In June 1955, the Fund issued an appeal to its members to reduce and to eliminate as rapidly as practicable reliance on bilateralism (see Appendix I of the Annual Report of the Executive Directors, 1955). Some progress on this account was recorded in the Seventh Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions (page 5), and the trend toward the elimination of bilateralism gathered momentum during 1956. Partly as a result of the increased facilities for transferring currencies, many bilateral payments agreements were terminated and others were modified so as to eliminate the requirement that payments be conducted only on a bilateral basis. Substantial further progress was achieved by various countries which had already begun in previous years to dismantle their bilateral payments agreements, and other countries joined in this movement. A number of countries which, hitherto, had made considerable use of bilateral agreements adopted policies that enabled them to move away from bilateralism. Argentina modified its bilateral payments relations with eleven European coun- tries when the "Paris Club" arrangements came into effect and also agreed to conduct payments with Japan on a sterling basis. The Federal Republic of Germany abolished (or modified, as indicated above) nine bilateral payments agreements in 1956 and two more in the early months of 1957. Countries taking similar action with respect to five or more agreements include Chile, France, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and Uruguay. Relatively few member countries entered into new agreements during the year, and the total number of discriminatory bilateral agreements in force declined substantially. While progress in the formal elimination of bilateral trade agreements was less strik- ing, the trend away from specific licensing commitments under such agreements continued. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Multiple Currency Practices Progress in eliminating or decreasing multiple currency practices was less marked in the period under review than in the preceding years. Last year's Report mentioned (page 5) that the payments systems of Chile and Paraguay were greatly simplified. Bolivia can now be added to this group, since in December 1956 it put into effect widespread changes in its exchange system, replacing a multiple exchange rate system by a single fluctuating rate for all transactions. Import licensing was abolished and a stabilization program that included fiscal, monetary, and other measures was adopted. Some other countries introduced new free markets or added to the number and kinds of transactions which could be conducted in existing free markets, although generally these changes were of minor impor- tance in their exchange systems. On various occasions during the year, Argentina shifted specified imports and minor exports from the official exchange market to the free market. Viet-Nam established a separate exchange market for certain invisibles and capital transactions. Ecuador unified two free markets by the withdrawal of official support for the rates in its controlled free market. A few countries made alterations in their exchange rate systems which reduced the number of existing rates and hence gave rise to a somewhat simpler rate structure. Afghanistan reduced the number of its fixed exchange rates from three to two. China (Taiwan) merged separate rates for certain exports with other rates prevailing in its rate structure. Iceland abolished the use of import certificates and levied a tax of 16 per cent on sales of exchange for imports and invisibles, with some exceptions. On the other hand, some countries put into effect new multiple rates or made increased use of existing multiple currency practices. In Turkey, the fluctuating rates for transactions under the deblockage system were replaced by a fixed rate, the use of which was extended to cover a limited number of invisibles. In Israel, a system of export premiums for some industrial exports paid for in U.S. dollars and ce'rtain other currencies came into effect. Chile introduced a tax of 1 per cent on foreign exchange payments and later increased this tax to 5 per cent. Turkey imposed a tax of 40 per cent on foreign exchange sold at the official rate for the import of a wide range of commodities. France introduced a tax on the sale of foreign exchange to French resi- dents for travel. Some countries having complex systems of multiple exchange rates made changes in the operation of those systems during the year, without, however, achieving notable progress in the direc- 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tion of simplifying their arrangements or free ing trade and payments. Brazil made several changes in export classifications and in export bonuses. Indonesia introduced a system of negotiable export incentive certificates, by which exporters of most goods receive bonuses, while importers of specified commodities must have these certificates in order to obtain the exchange to pay for imports. This alteration was accom- panied by a modification of the levies on imports and resulted in an increased number of effective import rates. Uruguay introduced a "free" certificate market for imports and exports; eleven groups of exports were established for nonmanufactured export produc ts, each group receiving a "mixing" ra te; and "mixing" rates were also estab- lished for exports of manu fac tu red goods.4 Other Changes As indicated above, the progress achieved during the year was in part a result of numerous individual relaxations which were not always of any great significance in themselves. This is especially true of the continued efforts to simplify and make less burdensome the restric- tions which it was thought necessary to retain and the exchange control machinery for the enforcement of these restrictions. The moves made in this field are recorded in detail in Part II of this Report, but a few examples are given below. Several countries, including China (Ta iwan ), France, the Federal Republic of Germany, India, Iran, and the United Kingdom, enlarged the powers delegated to commercial banks for deciding on exchange applications, or increased the number of banks authorized to exercise such powers, or generally eased the exchange control requirements. Argentina and Japan enlarged the list of goods licensed automatically. Some countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy, raised the limits below which imports are permitted without any licensing formalities. Lists of goods that could be imported free of quantitative restriction from all countries or from specified areas were enlarged by Austria, Burma, Ceylon, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. On the other hand, several countries found it necessary to intensify restrictions of various kinds. Australia, F in land, and India reduced 4 A "mixing" rate for exports consists of the negotiation of a specified proportion of exchange proceeds at one established rate (e.g., official rate) and of the remainder at another ra te(s) (e.g., free market ra te). This results in an effective rate of exchange for that transaction which is a weighted average of the rates at which the specified proportions of exchange are negotiated. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS import quotas, but in the early part of 1957, Australia eased its import restrictions to an appreciable extent. Colombia re-established licensing restrictions on imports, and both Colombia and Ecuador enlarged their lists of prohibited imports. The trend to more freedom in the field of international capital move- ments likewise continued. Significant s^eps in this direction were taken by several countries, among them Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands. In this connection, freer admin- istrative practices also play an appreciable role. Moreover, several countries liberalized controls over gold movements and gold transactions. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HI. Summary The developments in the field of restrictions during the period under review may be summarized as follows: 1. In general, there was continued progress in easing restrictions and lessening discrimination, although some countries faced with balance of payments difficulties imposed somewhat stiffer trade and payments restrictions. Progress in dismantling the machinery of exchange control was not as marked as progress in relaxing restrictions. During the year, there was a growing reliance on the Fund as a means of mobilizing sufficient reserves in order to avoid intensifying restrictions. The general tendency was to continue to apply the more fundamental remedies arising from flexible monetary and fiscal policies, rather than to resort to intensified restrictions in order to solve balance of payments problems. There was no fundamental change in the use made of multiple currency practices. 2. There was a substantial decline in bilateralism, as revealed both in a reduction in the number of bilateral payments agreements and in less restrictive means of conducting payments under existing agreements. 3. The movement toward transferable or limited multilateral arrangements, noted in the Seventh Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, w*s continued during the past year. Further progress was made in enlarging the areas of transferability of several non-dollar currencies. A further reduction in discrimination within the non-dollar world was also achieved by the extension of lists of goods not subject to quantitative restriction. There were some substantial moves to reduce discrimination against the dollar area, particularly by conti- nental European countries. When consideration is given to the payments difficulties encountered by several large countries during the period under review, it is satis- factory to be able to note that progress toward the establishment of a freer multilateral system of trade and payments was maintained and that no very serious setbacks occurred. 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note Member countries maintaining restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions under Article XIV, Section 2, of the Fund Agreement are required to consult with the Fund each year as to the fu r ther retention of those restrictions. The Fund has now completed its fifth series of annual consultations. These consulta- tions, which have taken place either in the member country or in Washington, have enabled the Fund to ma in ta in direct and close contacts with members and have provided an opportunity for dis- cussion of the economic and financial problems which give rise to restrictive and discriminatory practices and of the possibilities of further relaxation. Since the last Report was written, no additional countries have ceased to avail themselves of the postwar transitional period arrange- ments of Article XIV. Of the 60 members of the Fund, 49 have an obligation to consult under Article XIV, including 2 members which have joined the Fund since the last Report was issued. The following surveys of individual exchange systems of various countries are presented in three groups. The first comprises member countries which, for the most part, maintain their existing restrictions under the postwar transitional period arrangements of Article XIV. In some of these countries, however, restrictions to which the Fund has given approval under Article VIII of the Agreement may also be in operation. The second group comprises member countries which do not apply any restrictions under Article XIV; they are referred to as "Article VIII countries." The third group comprises certain countries which, at the time this Report was written, were not members of the Fund. The surveys relate generally to the exchange systems as at Decem- ber 31, 1956. For a few countries, however, the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place in early 1957. A standardized frame- work has been employed in drafting these surveys: each system is described under certain headings and a final section under each country lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1956. Notes on the subject matter under the descriptive headings used are given in the Explana- tory Note to Part II of the Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restric- tions (pages 21-24), published in 1955. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRIES OPERATING UNDER ARTICLE XIV Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Denmark Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic of Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Italy Japan Jordan Korea, Republic of Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay Peru Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South Africa United Kingdom Uruguay Viet-Nam Yugoslavia ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par va lue for the A f g h a n i. There are two off ic ial exchange rates: a first category rate of Afg 20.00 buying, Afg 20.25 selling, per US$1; and a second category rate of Afg 28.00 buy ing, Afg 28.35 selling, per US$1. These official rates apply to government transactions and invisibles, certain transactions by foreigners employed in A fghan is tan, other specified invisibles, imports of essential goods, and registered capital. However, allocations at the second category rate are made at an effective rate of Afg 32.35, i.e., Afg 28.35 plus an exchange tax of Afg 2 and a surcharge (used to provide export sub- sidies) of Afg 2. An effec t ive rate of Afg 22.25, i.e., the first category rate plus an exchange tax of Afg 2, applies to imports of consumer goods by government import monopolies and to freight and insurance thereon. In addition, there are other effec t ive rates resulting f rom the obligation to surrender the proceeds f rom exports of ka raku l, cotton, and wool in mixed proportions at the specified official rates. There is a fluctuating free market for all other transactions. (See Table of Exchange Rates; below.) Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by Da A fghan is tan Bank, the central bank of A fghan is tan. The control is facilitated by the existence of certain companies specializing in the export of such commodities as ka rakul and cotton. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements, except that transactions with countries with which Afghanistan has special trade and payments agreements 1 must be effected in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, but import licenses are required for imports f rom countries with which trade or payments agreements are in force. Exchange is provided for imports of govern- ment development projects at the first category rate, for essential 1 These c o u n t r i es are Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Poland, and U.S.S.R. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN industrial imports at the second category rate, and for certain other essential imports at the first or the second category rate. Other imports have to be financed in the free market. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles and payments made to foreign- ers on government contracts in Afghanistan are made at the official first category rate. Foreigners employed in Afghanistan may, after having sold 30 per cent of their salaries in foreign exchange for afghanis at the first category rate, have the remainder transferred abroad. A few invisibles may be remitted at the first or the second category rate. All other authorized payments are settled at the prevailing free market rate. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may not take out more than Afg 500 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries with which trade or payments agreements are in force require export licenses. Exports to the U.S.S.R. are licensed only if the exporter undertakes to sell an equivalent amount of the same commodity to other countries. All exchange proceeds from exports of karakul, cotton, and wool have to be surrendered to Da Afghanistan Bank in certain proportions at the specified official exchange rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). All exchange proceeds from other exports may be sold in the free market, where they must be used to import goods of a corresponding value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreigners employed in Afghanistan and paid in foreign exchange must surrender at least 30 per cent of their earnings to Da Afghanistan Bank at the first category rate in order to obtain local currency for their local expenses. The remainder, and exchange receipts from other transactions in invisibles, may be sold in the free market. The first category rate is, however, applied to purchases of exchange from cer- tain diplomatic establishments. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in banknotes not exceeding Afg 500 or the equivalent. Capital Foreign capital permitted to be invested in Afghanistan, either jointly with Afghan capital or otherwise, must be conducive to the prosperity and economic and technical advancement of the country even if it does not receive special privileges. Under the Foreign Invest- 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN ment Law of April 24,1954, the remittance of profits and the repatria- tion of registered capital in respect of all approved foreign investment in industry, mining, public works, agriculture, and transportation are guaranteed. If such capital is entered and registered at the second category rate, remittances may be made at that rate (effective rate, Afg 32.35); if capital is registered as entering through the free market, the transfer guarantee is in terms of the free market rate. Subject to permission, all other transfers of a capital nature by residents or non- residents may be effected through the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (ajghanis per UJS. dollar) Buying 20.00 (First Category Rate) 30% of salaries of foreign employees. Exchange bought by Da Afghanistan Bank from certain diplomatic estab- lishments. 21.57 (80% at First Category Rate and 20% at Second Category Rate) Karakul exports. 26.40 (80% at First Category Rate and 80% at Second Category Rate) Cotton and wool exports. 28.00 (Second Category Rate) Some registered capital. 50.00-55.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other receipts. Selling 20.25 (First Category Rate) Budgetary expenditures of the Govern- ment. Government expenditures for de- velopment projects. Students' expenses abroad. 22.25 (First Category Rate plus Afg % Exchange Tax) Imports of consumer goods by govern- ment import monopolies (sugar, gaso- line, lubricants) and freight and insur- ance thereon. 28.35 (Second Category Rate) 32.35 (Second Category Rate plus Afg 2 Exchange Tax plus Afg 2 Surcharge) Essential imports (including freight and insurance): industrial equipment, auto- mobiles and parts; cotton piece goods for the Cooperative Depot; imports by municipalities; other essential goods (tea, cement, medicines) to counter domestic price increases. Business travel by industrial importers; medical ex- penses ; other students' expenses abroad; some pilgrims' travel. Capital registered at Afg 28.00 and profits thereon. 50.00-55.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other authorized payments. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Changes during 1956 August 4. A bilateral payments agreement with Poland was signed. August 10. The afghani proceeds of imported goods sold at the Kabul Trade Fair could be remitted abroad at the rate of Afg 42 per US$1. October 24. The three official exchange rates were abolished and new oflBcial exchange rates of Afg 20 and Afg 28 per US$1 were established. 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System The par value is Argentine Pesos 18 = US$1.1 This rate applies to payments for essential imports, most government payments, and to the proceeds of exports of many products. Other invisibles, capital, payments for other specified imports, and the proceeds of all other exports are negotiated at fluctuating free market rates. Surcharges are payable on the exchange proceeds of certain exports and on pay- ments for certain imports. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Exchange may be bought and sold only by institutions (including banks, firms, and agencies) authorized expressly for this purpose by the Central Bank of Argentina, and all foreign exchange transactions must therefore be effected through these institutions. While purchases and sales of gold coins, fore ign banknotes, or currency may be made without any restriction in the f ree exchange market, all transactions in the official exchange market are controlled by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Under the bilateral agreements and multilateral arrangements con- cluded by Argentina with various countries, prescription of the currency for export receipts and import payments, according to the country of destination or origin of the goods, is as follows: (1) for transactions with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia, in agreement dollars related to the respective country; (2) for transactions with Bulgaria and Israel, in free dollars for exports and in account dollars for imports; (3) for transactions with Japan, in transferable sterling, although in some cases payment in Argentine-Japanese agreement dollars may be authorized; (4) for transactions with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzer- land, and the United Kingdom, and their associated monetary areas— under multilateral trade and payments arrangements —in the currency of any of these countries. Transactions with other countries are settled in U.S. dollars. 1 The par value of the Argentine peso was agreed with the International Monetary Fund on January 10, 1957. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Imports and Import Payments Most imports considered essential are paid for through the o f f ic ial market and require exchange licenses, which are granted either under the automatic licensing system or under the quota system. For imports under the automatic licensing system (some 69 per cent of total imports through the official marke t), exchange licenses are granted at any time on application, to any firm registered as an importer, regard- less of whether the firm was previously an importer or a consumer. No limitations are imposed on imports under this system, except with regard to price control and, in various cases, the country of origin. Price control is applied, by a system of a/oros, to imports of crude aluminum ingots, nickel in any form, metallic silicon, metallic mag- nesium, metallic manganese, tin bars or ingots, copper ingots, and electrolytic copper in cathodes or ingots. Under the quota system, which is limited to a small number of essential items, licenses are granted according to the previous record of consumption and /or import- ing of the applicant. Any firm may operate in the f ree exchange market without limitation and without prior permission f rom the Central Bank. Foreign exchange is obtained in this market for making up the difference that arises when a buying price is higher than the aforo established for certain goods imported through the official market. For a limited number of goods imported through the free market (some spares and accessories for automobiles, spare parts for industrial machinery, etc.), a surcharge of M$N 20 or M$N 40 per US$1 is payable, according to the goods or, for some items, on the basis of the legal weight of the article to be imported. These surcharges are also payable on imports effected with- out payment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for commercial invisibles are made solely through the free exchange market, without any restriction. Payments for other invisibles are also made through this market, with the exception of certain small payments (to holders of scholarships, for medical expenses, and for purchases of books by individuals), which are author- ized through the official market a f t er the necessary license has been obtained. Gold in coins or good delivery bars, as well as Argentine and foreign banknotes, may be taken out freely. 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exports and Export Proceeds The foreign exchange proceeds of exports of merchandise through the official market must be received either by payment from abroad before shipment of the goods, or against irrevocable documentary credits payable against delivery in Argentina of the shipping docu- ments. Except for certain exports to a few countries, the exporter must undertake to present the shipping documents to the authorized institution for liquidation of the credit and cash sale of the foreign exchange within five working days a f ter export. A percentage of the f.o.b. value of the proceeds of all exports may be paid abroad as exporters' commissions. Upon liquidation of the foreign exchange proceeds of exports of certain goods, the banks and authorized institu- tions withhold a percentage of the amount in Argentine pesos ranging, according to the products, between 10 and 25 per cent (see Table of Exchange Rates, b e low ). The foreign exchange proceeds of exports of produc ts not expressly indicated in a list published on October 28, 1955 are negotiated through the f ree market. The amounts by which the officially established ajoro values may exceed the selling prices agreed between buyers and sellers are also negotiated through this market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be sold in the f r ee ma rke t. There are no restrictions on the import of gold in coins or in good delivery bars, or on the import of Argentine or fo re ign banknotes. Capital Exchange derived f rom incom ing capital may be sold in the f ree exchange market. Capital transfers abroad, inc lud ing investments by residents or with funds released f rom control and belonging to non- residents, may be made through the free exchange market without a license. New incoming capital and income thereon may be repatriated freely through the free market. Foreign capital invested in Argentina before October 28, 1955 and income thereon accrued up to June 29, 1955 remain subject to control by the Central Bank. Income on such capital earned a f t er June 29, 1955 may be disposed of free ly and may be t ran s fe r red abroad through the f ree exchange market. The Central Bank permits capital investments in the form of imports of new machinery (complete plants or additions to those 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA already existing), raw materials, spare parts, and elements necessary to take care of a first operative cycle of production. Enterprises formed under this system must be organized in accordance with the legisla- tion in effect in Argentina. When authorized foreign investments may affect similar industries that have been formed with predominantly domestic capital and are already installed in the country, the Central Bank will grant to the latter exchange licenses to import, through the free market, machinery similar to that which has entered the country in the form of new foreign investment, in order to give equitable treat- ment to enterprises formed with Argentine capital. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (pesos per U.S. dollar) less Sur- 15.30 13.50 Buying (Official Rate charge) Exports of greasy wool, dried and salted hides, timber. Re-exports. (Official Rate less 20% .Sur- charge) Exports of scoured wool, bonemeal. (Official Rate less 15% Sur- charge) Exports of meat, most farm produce, combed wool and tops, etc. (Official Rate less 10% Sur- charge) Exports of grains, oilseeds, other arable- farm products, yerba mate, quebracho extract, etc. (Official Rate) Exports of tanned hides, tobacco, yarns and fibers, etc. 37.30 (approx.) (Free Market Rate) All other exports. Invisibles. Capital. 14.40 16.20 18.00 24 Selling 18.00 (Official Rate) Listed essential imports. Most govern- ment payments. 37.45 (approx.) (Free Market Rate) Other specified imports. Income from foreign investments accruing since June 30, 1955. Other invisibles. Capital. 57.45 (Free Market Rate plus MSN 20 Surcharge) Imports of motor bicycles, spares for industrial and other machinery. 77.45 (Free Market Rate plus M$N 40 Surcharge) Imports of spares and accessories for motorcars, certain tractor spares, speci- fied sports goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Changes during 1956 During the year, many changes were made affecting the exchange rates for individual import and. export items. These changes may be summarized as follows: (1) Numerous articles and products previously imported under the quota system were shifted to the automatic licensing system. (2) Several articles, products, and machinery previously imported through the official exchange market were authorized for import through the free exchange market. (3) Imports of several items were made subject to the surcharge of M$N 20 per US$1, and for imports of certain automobile accessories and spare parts the sur- charge was raised from M$N 20 to M$N 40 per US$1. (4) The pro- ceeds of numerous export items previously negotiable in the official market were authorized for sale in the free exchange market. (5) The withholding percentage applied to the exchange proceeds of certain exports was eliminated for some items. Other changes during 1956 follow. February 29. Imports of Argentine or foreign securities, shares, debentures, etc., were permitted freely. Resident-owned Argentine or foreign securities deposited in Argentina could be exported freely, as could also nonresident-owned securities when freed f rom control. May 29. Prior authorization of the Central Bank was no longer required for opening and extending documentary import credits in sterling, French francs, or Swedish kronor, or in agreement dollars with Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, and Belgium-Luxembourg, with the exception of credits opened against exchange permits granted up to December 22, 1956. June 27. The Central Bank would provide multilateral currencies in the official market to pay for imports after the goods have been cleared through customs or not later than 90 days af ter acceptance of the shipping documents by a foreign banker. June 29. It was decided to initiate, as f rom July 2, 1956, the appli- cation of the multilateral trade and payments arrangements recently agreed between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Den- mark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Accordingly, all payments and collections of a commercial and financial nature between Argentina and these countries and their associated monetary areas —with the exception of Austria — were to be made in any of the currencies of these countries, which would be freely t ran s fe rab le among themselves. Pending a new 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA arrangement, however, payments for merchandise originating in Den- mark, Norway, and Switzerland would be made in the currencies pro- vided in the bilateral agreements, in order to use the balances existing in these countries. Collections for Argentine exports destined for Austria would continue to be received in Argentine-Austrian agreement dollars, by payment before shipment or irrevocable documentary credit payable against delivery of the shipping documents in Argentina; pay- ment for imports from Austria would be made in transferable sterling beginning July 2, 1956. July 18. It was provided that, for exports to neighboring countries for which payment is received in agreement account dollars, the amounts obtained in excess of the aforo values established and pub- lished by the competent government organizations could be converted into any currency of the multilateral system, once the goods had been shipped, at rates to be announced by the Central Bank in the usual way. July 32. It was announced that, since the trade and payments agree- ment with Colombia of April 23, 1954 had been canceled, transactions between the two countries would be settled in U.S. dollars. Instruc- tions were to be requested in advance f rom the Central Bank for the liquidation of transactions in dollars with Colombia covered by outstanding documentary credits established before May 2, 1956. August 2. It was decided that, beginning August 3, 1956, Italy would participate in the multilateral trade and payments arrangements (see June 29, above). Therefore, the Italian lira was included among the currencies permitted for transactions with the pa r t ic ipan ts in this scheme. September 3. The Central Bank would grant exchange licenses and allocate t ran s fe rab le Swiss f rancs to pay for merchandise originating in Switzerland; the use of these francs would be governed by the pro- visions applicable to transactions with the other countries participating in the multilateral arrangements (see June 29, above). September 5. The banks were authorized without prior approval to transfer to a freely disposable account the balances held on July 31, 1956 on the cash accounts opened in the names of foreign banks and the cash balances held on the same date in the name of other firms or individuals, up to M$N 50,000 per account. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA September 18. Under the multilateral trade and payments arrange- ments with various European countries, collections for Argentine exports to Austria had to be received in transferable sterling. September 20. Argentina became a member of the International Monetary Fund. September 28. Proceeds from Argentine exports to Japan were to be received in transferable sterling; however, the Central Bank would continue to permit receipts in Argentine-Japanese agreement dollars for exports authorized by the competent government trade organiza- tions. Similarly, beginning October 1, 1956, payments for imports originating in Japan were to be made in transferable sterling; however, imports of Japanese merchandise against documentary credits for which reimbursement authorizations had been announced by the Cen- tral Bank of Argentina to the Bank of J.apan would continue to be paid for in Argentine-Japanese agreement dollars according to the pro- cedures and regulations. October 4. The Central Bank would grant exchange licenses and allocate transferable Norwegian kroner to pay for merchandise origi- nating in Norway; the use of these kroner would be governed by the provisions applicable to transactions with the other countries partici- pating in the multilateral arrangements (see June 29, above). November 23. Transactions with neighboring countries would be permitted in the free exchange market in the account currencies under agreements with those countries, at rates at par with those of the U.S. dollar. November 26. The terms of the trade and payments agreement with Paraguay, which was signed on October 9, 1956, were announced. Collections and payments were to be made in Argentine-Paraguayan agreement dollars. November 26. The terms of the trade and payments agreement signed on October 9, 1956 by Argentina and Brazil were announced. December 11. Depositories of funds and assets subject to control by the Central Bank (existing in Argentina on November 27, 1955 and belonging to nonresidents) were authorized to debit these accounts, without prior approval, for up to M$N 20,000 to cover expenses in Argentina of the account holder and his wife and children, up to M$N 5,000 per month to cover expenses of sick relatives, and up to M$N 5,000 per month for transfer abroad in favor of the account holder for living expenses. The rules by which the Central Bank would decide 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA on applications for the use of funds and assets still subject to con- trol were announced. December 20. The Central Bank was prepared to conclude swap transactions in the free market with authorized institutions, buying spot and selling forward at the par rate for a period of 90 days, at a commission of 1/10 of 1 per cent. December 24. The terms of the payments agreement signed on December 19, 1956 by the Central Bank of Argentina and the Central Bank of Uruguay were announced. Collections and payments were to be made in Argentine-Uruguayan agreement dollars. December 28. As f rom January 2, 1957, advance payments in the official market to cover documentary import credits in free currencies (dollars and escudos) opened, extended, or increased as from that date would be made not later than 90 days after acceptance of the shipping documents, if for any reason the importers could not liquidate the clearance permits. December 28. The Austrian schilling was included as a currency of payment with Austria, a participant in the multilateral payments arrangements with various European countries (see June 29, above). December 28. The terms of the trade and payments agreement signed on December 11, 1956 by Argentina and Bolivia were announced. Beginning January 2, 1957, collections and payments were to be made in Argentine-Bolivian agreement dollars. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Exchange Rate System The exchange rate system is unitary, based on the par value of Australian Pound 1 = US$2.24. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling: £A 125 buying, £A 125/10/- selling, per £100. The author- ized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, based on market quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control The Commonwealth Bank of Australia administers the exchange con- trol on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable dis- cretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and the Department of Customs and Excise, which collaborate with the Treasury and the Commonwealth Bank on foreign currency aspects. Prescription of Currency The Commonwealth Bank, by notices in the Commonwealth Gazette, prescribes the currency which may be accepted for exports to each foreign country or monetary area. Conformity to this prescription is one of the conditions on which the Department of Customs and Excise issues the export license. For payments for imports and other outward payments, the same type of currency prescription operates through central bank directions to the authorized banks. The form of prescrip- tion in both cases follows that of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made (1) in sterling to dollar countries through an American or Canadian Account, and to all other countries, except Egypt, through a Transferable Account; (2) in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia; (3) in dol- lars to a dollar country; or (4) in certain cases, in the local currency of the exporting country. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, sterling or Australian currency through appropriate accounts (as for imports) must be obtained; alternatively, dollars may be accepted from dollar countries and any specified currency that is freely offered and freely transferable to Australia may be accepted from non-dollar countries. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Nonresident Accounts There is no formal classification, as in the United Kingdom, of the accounts of nonresidents—i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area —because of the relatively few accounts involved; but the same princi- ples as in the United Kingdom apply. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between the accounts of residents of the same monetary area. All credits to nonresident accounts are subject to approval and are approved in the same circumstances and subject to the same condi- tions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Payment in sterling to an appropriate nonresident account in the United Kingdom is always an alternative method of payment, and this would, in terms of the United Kingdom's payments arrangements, ensure the payee's ability to acquire his own currency if desired. When, however, amounts have been left indefinitely in Australia on nonresi- dent account, they might be regarded as capital if transfer should be sought. Imports and Import Payments Apart from minor exemptions, imports of all goods require import licenses, which are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise in collaboration with the Department of Trade. Imports of certain basic materials are licensed on a nondiscriminatory basis. For imports from the dollar area, licenses are issued on an administrative basis and are confined to items regarded as essential, especially raw materials, indus- trial supplies, and capital equipment. Licenses for imports from all other countries are granted freely for a few commodities, but for other items licenses are issued mainly on percentage quotas based primarily on imports in the quarter April-June 1956 or in the fiscal year 1954-55. For some goods, e.g., machinery and capital equipment, for which quota control is inappropriate, the issuance of licenses for imports from non-dollar countries is subject to administrative decision. In general, quotas for non-dollar goods may be used for imports f rom any non- dollar source, except that a limit is placed on imports of certain com- modities from Japan. For imports subject to license, the provision of foreign exchange or permission to credit Australian currency to a nonresident account is automatic following the issuance of the import license, provided the prescription of currency requirements (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) are observed. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Payments for Invisibles All payments in respect of invisibles come under exchange control, but approval is given freely for most items and the control operates largely to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Restrictions apply, however, to allocations of foreign exchange for travel, to earnings of U.S. film companies and of visiting U.S. entertainers, and to dollar expenditures for such items as advertising, insurance of local risks, and newspaper representation abroad. For royalties and service charges due in dollars, approval for transfer is given provided the contract giving rise to the commitment was entered into prior to control or sub- sequently with exchange control permission. Limits are placed on noncontractual transfers, such as donations, remittances for family maintenance, and movements of emigrants' funds; the treatment of applications for such transfers is, however, relatively liberal, and any limitations may be regarded as complementary to the control over capi- tal movements. (See section on Changes during 1956, July 16, below.) Exports and Export Proceeds All exports (with minor exceptions) require licenses issued by the Department of Customs and Excise. A condition of these licenses is that fu ll proceeds must be received in a currency and within a period approved by the Commonwealth Bank. To assist supervision, there is a further condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Commonwealth Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. Unless payment is to be received in a currency and within a period corresponding to those stipu- lated by the Commonwealth Bank, the exporter's bank will not clear the documents without specific exchange control approval. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in U.S. dollars, as well as U.S. and Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be offered for sale within specified periods. Other currency holdings and proceeds from invisibles received in other currencies (except Sterling Area currencies) must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission, but their surrender is not compulsory. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require specific exchange con- trol approval. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of funds owned by residents of the Sterling Area; however, no advance 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA commitments are given in such cases. Transfers of resident capital to countries outside the Sterling Area are not allowed other than in excep- tional cases; transfers of nonresident capital are treated on their indi- vidual merits, sympathetic consideration being given to cases of personal hardship, special cases of business liquidation, etc. There are no restrictions on the receipt of capital funds from abroad, except that residents must obtain prior exchange control approval before incurring a -liability to a nonresident. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents (other than rights to receive payment in the United States or in U.S. dollars) need not be surrendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and transactions in foreign securities are sub- ject to specific exchange control approval. Changes during 1956 July 1. The Australian import licensing system was revised and restrictions were intensified. Imports from the non-dollar area were divided into categories: (1) Category A (mainly essential commodi- ties) now included all the commodities previously listed in this cate- gory, plus items included in a previous "Administrative*" category and 20 items transferred from Category B. Quotas in Category A are based on imports in the quarter April-June 1956, and in a few cases on imports in the fiscal year 1954-55. (2) Category B (mainly less essential commodities) was divided into seven subcategories. Quotas for all subcategories of Category B are based on a percentage of imports in the year ended June 1955. Importers who are granted quotas for imports of Category B goods may exercise freedom of choice in apply- ing for licenses for goods within each subcategory, up to the limit of the total of their quotas in the same subcategory. (3) Under the Administrative Category, the issue of import licenses was made subject to individual approval of the import control authorities. Specified imports may be made from any country. (4) The No-Quota Restric- tion Category, which includes nine items for which licenses are issued freely for imports from non-dollar countries, remained unchanged. July 16. The maximum exchange allowance for Australian tourists traveling in the Sterling Area was reduced from UK£1,300 to UK£1,000 a year per person. The maximum amount of dollars that would be pro- 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA vided for travel in the dollar area remained unchanged at $200 a year per person. The upper limits of UK£2,000 for business travel in Ster- ling Area countries and of UK£1,000 in non-sterling and non-dollar countries were reduced to UK£1,350 and UK£900, respectively. In addition, the authority of banks to sell exchange for business travel was limited to an allocation for one representative of a company, firm, or business traveling abroad at any one time. July 16. The limits on remittances for fam i ly maintenance by immi- grants to relatives overseas were reduced, from UK£250 to UK£200 a quarter per applicant for beneficiaries living in the Sterling Area, and from UK£30 to UK£25 a month per beneficiary for those living outside the dollar area and the Sterling Area. In respect of the latter, the maxi- mum remittance to any one fam i ly was reduced from UK£90 to UK£75 a month. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA i Exchange Rate System The par value is Austrian Schillings 26.00 = US$1. The official rates are S 25.95 buying, S 26.05 selling, per US$1. Basically, exchange transactions are effected at uniform rates based on the par value. Austria participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign ex- change arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with French banks), with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Official rates are fixed daily by the Austrian National Bank for exchange transactions in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, and, for travel purposes only, Czechoslovak korunas, as well as for all banknotes bought or sold by the Austrian National Bank. Special arrangements for exchange transactions in Egyptian pounds and Spanish account dollars give rise to other rates. Administration of Control In accordance with the new Foreign Trade Law, which came into force on December 1, 1956, export or import licenses for goods listed therein, if required, must be procured from the competent Ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry for Trade and Reconstruction (Central Agency for Exports and Imports), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, or the Federal Ministry for the Interior. The Austrian National Bank, which administers the import control, issues the ex- change licenses required for nonliberalized imports. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or through free schilling accounts of nonresidents. Settlements with countries participating in the Western European 1 In view of the inclusion of Austria as from January 2, 1957 in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement in operation among certain Western European countries, this survey represents the position as at that date. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA multilateral arbitrage arrangement are made in the currency of any country in the group. Settlements with countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements are made as follows: with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Spain, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia, through clear- ing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars; with Egypt, in Egyptian pounds; with Iceland, through a clearing account expressed in sterling; with Brazil, in transferable sterling; with Uruguay, in transferable sterling or in the currencies of other EPU countries, insofar as their regulations permit; and with Argentina, in Austrian schillings or any other cur- rency in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The four main categories of nonresident accounts in Austrian schil- lings are described in the following paragraphs. 1. Free schilling accounts originate from the sale of gold, gold coins, and freely convertible exchange by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank or to an Austrian authorized bank. With a few excep- tions, disposal of these accounts is permitted freely, including transfers from one free schilling account to another and the conversion of bal- ances on such accounts into foreign currency. 2. Authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and Argentina may maintain schil- ling accounts with authorized Austrian banks. All payments permissi- ble within the multilateral payments arrangements with these countries may be settled through such accounts. In addition, these accounts are freely transferable among the countries mentioned above that partici- pate in the Western European multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement and —insofar as such payments are permitted under their regulations —between those countries and Argentina. 3. Blocked accounts accrue f rom various categories of payments that have been made in favor of nonresidents and are not allowed to be transferred abroad. Balances on these accounts may not be used in Austria except as permitted under general or individual license. How- ever, if these accounts are held with authorized banks, they may be debited freely for payments in Austria on behalf of the account holder for the following purposes: (a) donations (e.g., to relatives for per- sonal aid, or to social, religious, or similar institutions) or maintenance payments to residents eligible for such payments, up to S 1,500 per beneficiary per month, total withdrawals not to exceed S 6,000 per 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA month; (b) payments to residents of certified claims arising in connec- tion with the opening or the administration of a blocked account or other blocked property of the account holder (e.g., bankers7 commis- sions, handling charges, deposit f e e s ); (c) payments of taxes and other public fees and charges, and legal counsel and notary fees owed by the account holder in Austria; (d) settlement of the travel expenses in Austria of the account holder and his family and accompanying serv- ants, up to S 5,000 per person per week; (e) payment for the mainte- nance of graves; and ( f) payments for real estate and related rights, and for securities. Blocked accounts may also be debited freely for specified investments in Austria; the permission of the Austrian National Bank is required for any other investment. The transfer of balances held by EPU residents as at June 30,1954 on blocked accounts with authorized banks is, upon application, authorized freely to any EPU country. 4. Administration accounts accrue f rom proceeds derived from non- resident-owned real property and deposited with an Austrian credit institution. Balances on these accounts may be used freely for certain payments to residents, e.g., for the personal expenses of nonresidents in Austria and public charges not related to merchandise transactions. Imports and Import Payments Liberalized goods that have their origin in and are consigned from OEEC countries may be imported without an import or an exchange license. Importers may utilize their retained export and other proceeds in EPU currencies held with Austrian foreign exchange dealers or they may purchase EPU currencies freely from the authorized banks, in order to make payments related to such imports. For all other imports, including liberalized goods from the United States and Canada, ex- change licenses, and —for goods listed in the Foreign Trade Law— import licenses, are required. Compensation (ba r te r) transactions are, in general, permitted with those countries with which Austria has no payments or clearing agree- ments, when there is no other way of settling payments. Such trans- actions are subject to individual licensing by the Austrian National Bank and the Federal Ministry for Trade and Reconstruction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to individual licensing by the Austrian National Bank, with the exception of those settled through EPU, which may, under certain conditions ( the chief exception being 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA capital transfers), be effected without license. The transfer of capital earnings to EPU countries is permitted within the framework of the liberalization applied to OEEC countries. Licenses are generally granted after taking into account the terms of existing bilateral trade agreements and such other considerations as the principle of reciprocity, hardship cases, and the availability of foreign exchange. For payments connected with the international transport of goods, export commis- sions, installations, and services, licenses are granted automatically. Residents traveling as tourists to OEEC countries may receive yearly allocations of exchange up to the equivalent of S 5,200 per adult. Persons going abroad may take with them S 10,000 in Austrian cur- rency and any amount in foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports that are regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be procured from the competent Ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry for Trade and Reconstruction (Central Agency for Exports and Imports), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, or the Ministry for the Interior; goods exported by way of compensation (barter) are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry for Trade and Reconstruction. In the issuance of export licenses, due consideration is given to the provisions of any relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agree- ments, and to the needs of the Austrian economy. In principle, exports effected and export claims must be declared and export proceeds surrendered. If the exporter has obtained permission to maintain a foreign exchange account with an authorized Austrian bank, he may keep the export proceeds for six months; the use of these amounts is, however, subject to the same conditions as those applying to other outgoing payments. The following items are exempt from the general obligation to declare export claims and surrender export pro- ceeds: (1) Claims and proceeds settled through EPU (if kept in accounts with authorized Austrian b a n k s ); such exchange may be used freely for conversion into other EPU currencies or for payment of the holder's debts to creditors in the EPU area (with the exception of capital payments and payments in the transit and processing trades). (2) Claims and proceeds arising f rom exports to Egypt and collected through a "collector account" established in accordance with the Austrian-Egyptian payments agreement of July 6,1953, as well as those resulting from exports to Spain and collected in Spanish account dol- lars ; such exchange may be sold at f ree rates through authorized banks 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA to Aus tr ian residents ho ld ing valid exchange licenses for payments to Egypt or Spain, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, exchange receipts from invisibles have to be surrendered within eight days from the date of collection, with the exception of EPU currencies held with Austrian banks and other credit institutions and proceeds credited to an account under the agreement with Egypt or Spain (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). A number of institutions, such as insurance companies and patent offices, are granted open licenses to use their exchange proceeds for payments on their own account. Persons entering Austrian territory as tourists are free to bring in Austrian or foreign currency without limit. Capital The utilization of foreign capital by residents and new investments in Austria by nonresidents require licenses from the National Bank; these licenses are granted after careful scrutiny of each case, the inter- ests of the national economy as a whole being taken into consideration. Foreign exchange brought in for investment purposes must, in principle, be surrendered. Requests for the transfer of capital and capital pro- ceeds arising from new investments are granted under the terms origi- nally laid down when the investment was authorized. Proceeds from sales by nonresidents of securities, enterprises, and real estate and related rights, as well as other payments not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad, are usua l ly credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The transfer of capital abroad by resi- dents is subject to approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. The export of foreign securities held by nonresidents is, as a rule, permitted. An open license has been granted for such transactions as (1) the export of securities for the purpose of realizing rights and claims thereunder abroad; (2) the export of securities owned by non- residents; and (3) the export of foreign securities owned by residents for sale abroad (the proceeds must be declared). Nonresidents may acquire fixed-interest-bearing securities only against payment in freely convertible currencies, or to the debit of schilling balances originating from the sale of such currencies, or to the debit of blocked schilling accounts. The proceeds must, in general, be deposited in a blocked account; they are, however, transferable to EPU countries within the framework of the liberalization of payments in the OEEC area. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Changes during 1956 January 1. The liberalization of imports f rom OEEC countries was raised from 83.5 per cent to 88.7 per cent. March 23. A payments agreement based on clearing dollars at free market rates was signed with Spain. July 2. Under the terms of a revised payments agreement w i th Argentina, payments between Austria and Argentina would now be made in transferab le sterling. However, un t il Austria's balances accumulated under the previous agreement were utilized, sterling would not be allocated for Austrian payments to Argentina. July 4. In accordance with a payments agreement between Austria and Brazil, payments between the two countries were, in principle, to be made in t rans fe rab le sterling. However, for transit transactions in Brazilian goods, payments to Brazil must be made by Austrian transit dealers in a free ly convertible currency if the transit dealer obtains free ly convertible currency upon resale. August 1. The liberalization of imports f rom OEEC countries was raised f rom 88.7 per cent to 90.3 per cent. October 15. The do l lar liberalization list was expanded from 8 per cent to approximately 40 per cent of Austrian imports from the dollar area, on the basis of 1953 imports. November 28. In accordance with a new payments agreement con- cluded between Austria and Uruguay, payments between the two coun- tries wou ld now be effected in transferab le sterling. December L A new Foreign Trade Law, valid un t il December 31, 1959, came into effect. December 21. It was announced that, effective Janua ry 2, 1957, banks in Austria and Austrian schillings would be included in the multi- lateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement in operation among Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. December 30. It was announced that, as from January 2, 1957, pay- ments between Austria and Argentina could be effected not only in ster- ling but also through schilling agreement accounts and in the currencies of the other countries participating in the Western European multi- lateral exchange arbitrage arrangement —insofar as such payments are permitted under the regulations of these countries. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG * Exchange Rate System The par values are Belgian Francs and Luxembourg Francs 50 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —official and free. Most cur- rent transactions are settled through the official market and most financial (i.e., capital and certain current) transactions are settled through the free market, although for some current and some financial transactions there is a choice between the two exchange markets. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market, at rates main- tained within official limits corresponding to BF 49.50 and BF 50.50 per US$1. The currencies in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Czechoslovak korunas, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Belgium and Luxembourg participate with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these terri- tories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with French banks), with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks in-Belgium- Luxembourg may also deal in EPU currencies against Belgian and Luxembourg francs with residents of any country in the transferable area (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). In the free exchange market, all currencies may be negotiated at freely fluctuating rates by authorized banks, by other residents, and by nonresidents. In practice, however, only the major currencies are negoti- ated in the free market. Dollars derived from transactions of a non- commercial nature, and other currencies regardless of the nature of the underlying transaction, may be sold in the free market, but EPU cur- 1 In view of certain changes in the exchange control regulations, effective April 1, 1957 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the situation as at that date. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG rencies purchased in the free market may be used only for noncom- mercial transactions. Exchange transactions in connection with the free gold market are also carried out in the free exchange market. Rates in the free market correspond to rates in free exchange markets in other countries. Exchange Control Territory The Belgian Monetary Area, wh ich consists of Belgium, Luxembourg, the Belgian Congo, and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi, is treated as a single exchange control territory in relation to countries with which Belgium has concluded payments agreements. Although the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi have their own exchange control system, very few restrictions are in force between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union on the one side and the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi on the other. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange con- trol in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change, wh ich is the central ex- change control authority for the Union. Administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks, but in special cases authorized banks must submit requests for authorization to the central authority. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the currency to be used for incoming and out- going current payments is an integral part of the restrictive system of Belgium-Luxembourg. It seeks to limit payments in hard currencies to imports and services originating in countries with convertible cur- rencies and to prevent any undue accumulation of inconvertible cur- rencies; and it ensures that commercial payments coming in from the dollar area or going out to non-dollar countries are channeled through the official market or, if in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, through the corresponding type of nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). All inward and outward transactions are classified in three groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, other commercial expenses, insurance, and indus- trial expenses (e.g., costs of processing); List B covers administrative 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG SUM MART OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOB FOBEIGN PAYMENTS Class of Transaction Country Group Exchange Market Foreign Currency Nonresident Account Outward Payments Lists A and B Dollar Official or free Any EPU None s Any EPU; korunas Any Transferable 2 Bilateral of country concerned [ Transferable, Bilateral, or Financial Official None 3 Free Official Transferable Bilateral All All All List C Lists A, B, and C Lists A and B Inward Payments Official Dollars Convertible Transferable Bilateral Official or free None 3 EPU None 3 Transferable Bilateral of country concerned Lists B and C All Free Any Financial expenses, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, public administration payments, and all transactions not on List A or List C; List C covers traveling expenses, annuity income (rentes), gifts, life insurance pay- ments, family maintenance, capital investments, income and capital including the liquidation of investments, and dealings in gold. Foreign countries are divided into three groups: (1) dollar countries are listed as Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- 2 However, payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to EPU countries and their associated monetary areas may only be made to the accounts of banks in those countries. 8 For settlements with Czechoslovakia, there is the possibility of payment in Czechoslovak korunas, and for settlements with Egypt, in EPU currencies. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG duras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippine Republic, the United States and possessions, and Venezuela; (2) bi- lateral countries are listed as Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia; (3) all other countries are in the transferable area, which includes EPU countries (except Turkey) and their associated monetary areas. Payments to EPU countries for transactions on Lists A and B may be made only to the accounts of banks in those countries. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are sum- marized in the accompanying table. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r anc accounts of nonresidents are classified in four types. The use of these accounts, other than for the settlement of transactions with residents as indicated in the last column of the table above, is outlined below. 1. Transferable Accounts. These accounts are not denominated by country and may be opened for all persons, including banks, resident in countries not classified as dollar or bilateral countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of dollars or EPU cur- rencies in the official market. Balances on Transferable Accounts may be converted into EPU currencies in the official market, and may be transferred freely to other Transferable Accounts. 2. Convertible Accounts. These are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened in the name of any nonresident. They may be credited with current payments due to the dollar area and with proceeds from the sale in the official market by a nonresident of U.S. and Canadian dollars to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any resident or nonresident account or be con- verted into any currency in the official or the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These are the accounts of authorized banks in bilateral countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of dollars in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts of the same nationality. Belgian or Luxembourg francs in Bilateral Accounts related to Czechoslovakia may be exchanged against Czechoslovak korunas in the official market. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 4. Financial Accounts. These accounts, like the Convertible Ac- counts, are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened for any nonresident. They are primarily for capital transfers and traveling expenses, although other specified settlements, such as those related to dealings in gold, may be made through them. Balances on Financial Accounts may be transferred freely to any type of account except a Convertible Account. Financial Accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market and of dollars in the official market. They are exchangeable into gold or any currency at free market rates and also into EPU currencies and Czechoslovak korunas in the official market. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any country require import licenses; these goods are listed by an intergovernmental Belgian-Luxembourg commission. For goods not so listed, an import declaration must be filled out by the importer. Imports of all goods from Argentina, East Germany, Turkey, and Uruguay require import licenses. Both import licenses and import declarations must be stamped by an authorized bank before exchange may be made available and before importation may take place. In the case of import declarations, the authorized bank is required to make certain that payment will be made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Where the requirements are not fulfilled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission to stamp the document. The requirements are simplified for imports not exceeding BF 10,000. Only for dollar imports is submission to an authorized bank of supporting documents (invoices, contracts, etc.) required before exchange can be made available. Payments for Invisibles For payments to the dollar area for transactions in invisibles, if they are to be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account, supporting documents must be presented to an authorized bank and, in some cases, the approval of the central exchange control authority is required. These requirements do not apply to payments to non-dollar countries. Payments to dollar countries for certain invisibles may. be made only through the free market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account. For other transactions in invisibles, there is a 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG choice of exchange market and of type of nonresident account through which the payment may be made (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). Exports and Export Proceeds Except for minor cases where the goods have a limited value, all exports require either an export license issued by the trade control authorities or an export declaration filled out by the exporter. The requirements are simplified for exports not exceeding BF 10,000. An intergovernmental Belgian-Luxembourg commission lists the goods that require export licenses. Before the export can take place, the license or the declaration must be stamped by an authorized bank. In the case of export declarations, the authorized bank is required to make sure that the proceeds will be received in accordance with the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exports to Argentina, Mainland China, East Germany, North Korea, Turkey, Uruguay, and North Viet-Nam are subject to license. Only export proceeds in Canadian or U.S. dollars need be surrendered to an authorized bank. Alternatively, export proceeds in these two currencies may be held in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank and used for all payments authorized to be made in these cur- rencies. For the sale in the official market of EPU currencies derived from exports, for the retention of such proceeds in a "commercial" account, and for the receipt of Belgian or Luxembourg francs from a Transferable or Bilateral Account of a nonresident, the beneficiary is required to submit evidence of the underlying transaction to an authorized bank, if the amount exceeds BF 10,000. Payments for exports to the transferable area and bilateral countries (unless received in convertible currencies) may not be accepted un t il a f ter the export has taken place. Export proceeds in an EPU currency not sold in the official market to an authorized bank may be sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Only exchange proceeds from invisibles connected with certain com- mercial transactions (List A—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) received in Canadian or U.S. dollars need be surrendered, i.e., sold in the official exchange market. Alternatively, they may be held in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank and used for all payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Exchange receipts in EPU currencies derived from most invisibles may be sold in the official market, but proof of the underlying transaction must be pre- sented to an authorized bank; they may also be retained or sold in 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG the free market. All other exchange proceeds may be retained or sold in the free market. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out freely through the free market or by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident. In addition, incoming capital may be received in U.S. or Canad ian dollars through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs to the debit of a Convertible Accoun t, and ou tgo ing cap i tal may be remitted in EPU currencies or Czecho- slovak korunas through the official market or in Belgian or Luxem- bourg f r a n cs to the credit of any nonresident account except a Con- vertible Accoun t. There are arrangements by wh ich the exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments that are made in Be lg ium-Luxembourg in accordance with the general regu la t ions governing incoming payments (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). All transactions in securities by resi- dents or nonresidents are f ree, but financial settlements must con fo rm to the general regulations. Securities in Netherlands guilders exported to countries other th an the Netherlands must have a "red (expor tab le) certificate" provided by the Netherlands authorities. Banknotes Transactions in banknotes may be carried out freely by all residents and nonresidents at freely fluctuating rates. Banknotes may be im- ported and exported without restriction, but they may not be used to settle foreign transactions other than tourism, banknote arbitrage, and the purchase and sale of gold. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes sent to authorized banks by fore ign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited freely to the Financial Accounts of nonresidents. Changes during 1956 January 1. Dealings in gold, including its import and export, were permitted freely, but nonresidents could settle for gold transactions only in domestic or foreign banknotes, in foreign currencies through the free exchange market, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through a Financial Account. January 13. The certification of a Brazilian bank, formerly a pre- requisite for crediting a Brazilian bank's No Agreement Account with 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG funds from the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, or the United Kingdom, was no longer required. January 23. Bilateral Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs of banks in Argentina were transformed into No Agreement Accounts. February 8. The central exchange control authority announced that it would consider favorably applications, when the amounts did not exceed BF 10,000, for nonresidents to make payments to residents for transactions on List C by debiting EPU, Bilateral, or No Agreement Accounts. April 30. The term for permissible fo rwa rd exchange transactions in the Western European mu l t i la teral arbitrage currencies was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. May 15. The regulations concerning insurance payments were l ibera l ized and simplified. L i fe insurance payments were placed on List C, so that they could be settled through the free market or in F inanc ial Account f ranc s. May 15. Consolidated lists were published showing the import restric- tions rema in ing a f ter the establishment of the Bene lux common market. Quantitative restrictions on the exchange of nearly all commodities between the Benelux partners were abolished. The arrangements also provided for the f ree circulation between the Benelux countries of goods imported f rom many OEEC and GATT member countries ( inc lud ing those in the dollar a r e a ), except for certain listed items. June 1. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements between Brazil and Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. It was announced that favorab le consideration wou ld now be given to applications to credit No Agreement Accounts of banks in Brazil w i th Belgian or Luxem- bourg f rancs derived f rom sales of Italian lire in the official market or transferred f rom EPU Accoun ts of banks in Italy. July 2. Arrangemen ts came into effect for mu l t i la teral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Ne ther lands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The clearing account in U.S. dollars with Argen t ina was liquidated and payments to Argentina could be made either in EPU currencies or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to No Agree- ment Accounts. Accounts in the names of banks in Argentina could also be credited with other proceeds f rom the sale of EPU currencies 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG in the official market or with transfers from EPU Accounts. Argentina was classified as a No Agreement country and all Argentine accounts (and not only those of banks—see January 23, above) became No Agreement Accounts. Trade between Argentina and Belgium-Luxem- bourg could now be effected through intermediaries in any of the countries participating in the new arrangements. July 2. No Agreement Accounts of banks in Brazil could now be credited with proceeds from the sale of EPU currencies in the official market or with transfers from EPU Accounts, without the prior approval of the central exchange control authority, which had been required previously. August 3. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements with Argentina (see July 2, above). September 10. Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks were empowered to approve transit transactions in specified commodities, without the necessity of referring all such transactions to the central exchange control authority, as had been required formerly. In the exchange control system, annuity income (rentes) was transferred from List B to List C, so that payments of this type in all currencies could now be settled through the free market. September 24. Authorized banks were permitted to approve import declarations for imports of Brazilian goods effected through inter- mediaries in Austria or France, in view of the entry of these two countries into the multilateral payments arrangements with Brazil. Note. Effective April 1, 1957, the following modifications were made in the exchange control regulations: The number of groups into which foreign countries are divided was reduced from four to three and the number of types of nonresident account was reduced from five to four by combining the previous categories of EPU and No Agreement into a single category —Transferable —to which the arrangements previously applicable to settlements with EPU countries would apply. At the same time, Chile and Finland were transferred from the bilateral group to the transferable area and Bolivia and Paraguay f rom the No Agree- ment group to the dollar area. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System The par value of Bolivianos 190 = US$1, established on May 14, 1953, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. All exchange transactions take place at a single rate, which is permitted to fluctuate. The Central Bank sets a daily rate at which it will buy and sell foreign exchange. The rate on December 31, 1956 was Bs 7,745 per US$1. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Bolivia. As agent of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank executes and controls an annual exchange budget for imports to be made by the Government and its agencies. The exchange budget is established in a decree issued by the Government. Prescription of Currency Payments for transactions with other countries are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments for exports and imports under trade and payments agreements continue to be subject to the provisions of these agreements, while they remain in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports by the Government and its agencies are governed by an exchange budget, and are paid for with exchange purchased from the Central Bank at the free rate. Private imports are free of import and exchange licensing, and exchange to pay for such imports may be obtained freely at the free rate. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely at the free rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. The Bolivian Mining Corporation is responsible for exports of the minerals produced in its own mines. Exports of minerals produced by private mines are effected through the Mining Bank. The Bolivian Government Oil Fields are responsible for exports of petroleum. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA All exchange receipts from exports by the Government and its official agencies are surrendered to the Central Bank at the free rate; except that the Mining Corporation retains 40 per cent of its exchange receipts for its own use. Proceeds from other exports may be sold to commer- cial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the free rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Taxes (regalias) on exports are payable in convertible currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold at the f ree rate. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free. The corresponding exchange transactions may be settled freely at the free rate. Changes during 1956 January 1. The effective rate for petroleum exports by the Bolivian Government Oil Fields was raised to Bs 1,790 per US$1. March 8. The effective rate for exports by the Mining Corpora t ion was raised from Bs 510 to Bs 1,200 per US$1, and the export rate for the Mining Bank was raised from Bs 900 to Bs 1,500 per US$1, both retroactive to January 1. April 12. The maximum rate of surcharge on imports of certain non- essential and luxury items was raised from 1,500 per cent to 3,000 per cent of the c.i.f. value, and imports of certain other items formerly exempt from surcharges on the c.i.f. value were taxed at 100 to 1,000 per cent. This was accompanied by a considerable reduction in the revertibles (taxes on imports similar to sales taxes). July 1. The effective rate for exports by the Mining Bank was changed from Bs 1,500 to Bs 3,500 per US$1. October 1. The effective rate for exports by the Mining Corporation was changed f rom Bs 1,200 to Bs 3,500 per US$1, retroactive to September 1. December 15. Comprehensive changes were made in the exchange system. The multiple exchange rate system was replaced by a single fluctuating rate for all transactions. Import licensing was abolished. In addition to a reform of the exchange system, the stabilization pro- gram which was adopted included other fiscal and monetary measures. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange Rate System The par value is Brazilian Cruzeiros 18.50 = US$1. The official rates are Cr$18.36 buying, Cr$18.82 selling, per US$1. A 10 per cent exchange tax applied to nearly all payments made through the official market results in a selling rate of Cr$20.70 per US$1. However, the effective rates for most private import transactions are obtained by adding to this rate the prices of the related exchange certificates obtained at auction. These prices and, consequently, the effective rates fluctuate. The effective rates for the proceeds of exports are obtained by adding established fixed bonuses to the Cr$18.36 rate. There are four cate- gories of export commodities, and for each category two different bonuses are established: (1) one bonus for proceeds in sterling, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and French francs (these currencies are referred to in this survey as the "multi- lateral currencies"), convertible currencies, and Argentine clearing dollars; (2) the other bonus for proceeds in all other currencies. All invisible transactions not directly related to the movement of goods and most capital transactions are effected at a fluctuating free market rate. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Bank of Brazil under the direction of the Council of the Superintendency of Money and Credit (SUMOC). The Exchange Department of the Bank authorizes incom- ing and outgoing payments related to most trade transactions and to capital transactions in specified cases; it organizes the auctions of exchange for imports, establishes the total amount and the distribu- tion among the various cities in Brazil where the exchange is auctioned, and issues exchange certificates. Government departments and public entities are requested to present to the Exchange Department semi- annual estimates of their needs for imports and service payments. With these estimates as a basis, the Council of the SUMOC fixes the maxi- mum quota to be utilized by those entities. The Foreign Trade Depart- ment of the Bank of Brazil issues export and import licenses, classifies import commodities into categories—subject to the approval of the Council of the SUMOC —for the purpose of distributing available exchange, determines the percentage of total exchange auctioned to be distributed to each category of import commodity, and exercises control over prices, weights, measures, classification, and types declared in export and import operations. The Advisory Commission on Foreign 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Trade makes suggestions to the Foreign Trade Department regarding the classification of the import products into categories and on those measures which it considers advisable for the development of foreign trade. It also suggests general criteria concerning export and import licensing. A few government imports have to be approved by the Presi- dent of the Republic. Imports of wheat, newsprint, and petroleum products are subject to specific treatment by specialized agencies. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is enforced in relation to the currency of the country of origin of imports and to the currency of the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Payments with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom may be effected in the currency of any of these countries, in accordance with a multilateral arrangement. Payments with payments agreement countries are effected through the relevant agreement accounts, usually maintained in clearing dollars.1 Payments with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements are usually effected in U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Except for a few specified items, all private imports into Brazil require import licenses. These are granted freely to holders of exchange certificates purchased at auction, provided the application complies with the regulations in fo rce; they are prerequisites for obtaining ex- change at the official rate. The licensing of, and the payments for, imports are thus strictly related, and for both purposes imports may be divided into the groups described in the following paragraphs. 1. Specified commodities for which payment, if necessary, is not effected through the auction system: In this category are government imports (including imports of wheat) and imports of maps, books, newspapers, magazines, and paper and other material used by pub- lishing companies or book printers; these are subject to a surcharge of Cr$25 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. Imports of news- 1 Brazil has bilateral payments agreements with Denmark, Iceland, and Sweden, and agreements requiring settlements to be made in clearing dollars with Argen- tina, Bolivia, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Uruguay. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL print, which are effected at the official rate, are also included in this category, as well as imports without exchange cover. Exchange for government imports and for imports of newsprint and other printing paper is allocated directly by the Council of the SUMOC. 2. Imports of petroleum products: In addition to being subject to import license, these imports must be authorized by the National Petroleum Council. Exchange is allocated on a half-yearly basis, and purchases of exchange are effected "through special auctions. The premiums for imports of petroleum products for 1957 have been uni- fied at Cr$35 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. 3. Imports of groups of equipment financed in foreign currency and intended for the production of commodities classified in import Cate- gories I, II, or III (see paragraph 4, be low): These may be authorized by the Foreign Trade Department if the annual payment installments do not exceed 20 per cent of the total value financed. Exchange for such equipment may be granted by the Exchange Department at the official rate, provided the importer prepays a surcharge, which until further deliberation is fixed at Cr$40 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. The commitment on the part of the Exchange Department to provide exchange depends on exchange availability, and the amounts corresponding to the obligations assumed must be earmarked. The Exchange Department may also permit payment to be made, in whole or in part, through the free market. Capital goods used in the produc- tion of commodities other than those classified in the first three import categories may be imported in accordance with the above provision only by a decision of the Council of the SUMOC, taking into account the criteria proposed by the National Council of Economy. 4. All other imports: These imports are subject to the purchase of exchange certificates at auction and to subsequent import licensing. For the purpose of allocating exchange in accordance with essentiality, these imports are classified into five categories, according to the fol- lowing general criteria: Category I: Essential commodities necessary to promote employ- ment and agricultural production, as well as certain pharmaceuti- cal products, etc. Category II: Essential raw materials and codfish Category III: Other raw materials and highly essential spare parts and equipment Category IV: Fresh fruits, less essential spare parts and equipment, office machinery, and certain consumer goods Category V: All other products 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL The price of the exchange certificates purchased at auction must be paid within 5 working days beginning with the working day following that of purchase, and the application for an import license must be filed within the following 30 days. An importer in possession of an exchange certificate and an import license may purchase the ex- change at the official rate at any time, for delivery in accordance with the terms of the exchange certificate; however, goods must be shipped within the period of validity of the import license. Most pay- ments for private imports are subject to a remittance tax of 10 per cent on the official rate. As a rule, importers may not purchase more than US$50,000 worth of exchange certificates at any single auction. The "multilateral currencies" (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are acquired by bidding for certificates denominated in ACL dollars (dollars of the area of limited convertibility). Successful bid- ders for ACL dollars may obtain any of the "multilateral currencies." Minimum premiums per U.S. dollar, or the equivalents in other cur- rencies, have been established for the five categories of imports at Cr$25, Cr$30, Cr$35, Cr$40, and Cr$100, respectively.2 The lowest and highest premiums for the U.S. dollar (120 days' delivery) and for the ACL dollar, actually obtained at the auctions held in Rio de Janeiro on December 26 and 27, 1956, were as follows (in cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) : Category I Category II Category III Category IV Category V U.S. Dollars ACL Dollars Cr$ 42.10-43.70 56.80-63.50 101.50-109.20 157.00-174.50 285.50-288.00 Cr$ 38.10-39.00 58.00-58.60 96.00-100.00 150.50-151.00 340.00-343.10 Special auctions are held weekly for separately listed goods used in agriculture and occasionally for imports of fruits from a few specified countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for expenses incidental to trade are made at the same effective rates and subject to the same conditions as the corresponding imports or exports; but exchange is not provided for the insurance of goods in Brazil or where import licenses have been issued on a c. & f. 2 Effective February 4, 1957, new fluctuating minimum premiums were intro- duced in place of the previous fixed minimum premiums. The premiums in effect during February 1957 for the five import categories were, respectively, Cr$29, Cr$47, Cr$73, Cr$107, and Cr$231, per US$1, or the equivalents in other currencies. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL basis. All other transactions in invisibles are effected through the free market and are not subject to the 10 per cent remittance tax. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to export license, with the exception of coffee exports, which are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. Export licenses are granted without limitation except when (1) the export is contrary to national security or to obligations arising from international agreements, (2) payment is to be made in an incon- vertible currency the acceptance of which is considered by the Ex- change Department to be inconvenient, or (3) an accumulation of stocks to guarantee domestic supplies is advisable. All exports are subject to shipping permits issued by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil. Export proceeds must be surrendered through an authorized bank. Exports are classified in four categories, each of which receives one of two bonuses, according to the currency in which the proceeds are received, as follows (the bonuses are expressed in cruzeiros per U.S. do l lar): Category I ( co f f e e ): Cr$18.70 for proceeds in convertible currencies, Argentine clearing dollars, and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$17.19 for proceeds in other currencies Category II (raw cotton, cocoa beans, cocoa cake, cocoa paste, all types of crude lea the r ): Cr$24.70 for proceeds in convertible cur- rencies, Argentine clearing dollars, and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$22.95 for proceeds in other currencies Category III (cotton linters and spinning scraps; bananas and other table fruits, Brazil nuts, peanuts, carnauba wax, and other un- processed and processed agricultural products; raw wool and raw skins of any type; cedar and other unfinished wood and sawn pine wood; iron ore, manganese ore, piezoelectric quartz, and raw qu a r t z ): Cr$36.64 for proceeds in convertible currencies, Argen- tine clearing dollars, and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$34.41 for proceeds in other currencies Category IV (all other exports): Cr$48.64 for proceeds in con- vertible currencies, Argentine clearing dollars, and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$45.92 for proceeds in other currencies 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from most invisibles are sold through the free market. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Investments. The inflow and outflow of foreign investments are effected at the free market rate. The law assures the same guarantees to foreign capital as to domestic capital. The remittance of earnings on foreign investment depends on the interest the investment repre- sents to the national economy: if classified as of "special" interest and duly registered by the Council of the SUMOC, remittances of earnings may be effected up to the limit of 10 per cent per annum at the "cost of exchange" (i.e., the weighted average of bonuses paid to exporters plus the official exchange r a t e ); all other transfers of income are effected at the free market rate. Imports by foreign investors of groups of equipment, or, exceptionally, of equipment intended to com- plete or improve the capacity of existing groups, may be authorized by the Director of the Foreign Trade Department, provided he has su f- ficient proof that no payment will be transferred abroad. Financing. In the case of loans, credits, and other financing of un- questionable interest to the national economy, obtained abroad and registered by the Council of the SUMOC, repayments of principal and transfers of interest not exceeding 8 per cent per annum may be made at the "cost of exchange," provided the original capital has been nego- tiated in the official market or applied abroad in the acquisition of equipment licensed expressly for that purpose, or applied abroad for the payment of contractual services approved by the Council of the SUMOC. The Foreign Trade Department may issue licenses to Brazilian companies to import groups of equipment financed abroad, under certain conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (cruzeiros per UJS. dollar) BRAZIL 18.82 Selling (Official Rate) Imports of newsprint. 20.70 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Remittance Tax) Theoretical rate, added to auction bids to obtain effective rates for most im- ports. 43.82 (Cr$18.82 plus Cr$26 Surcharge) Some government payments. Govern- ment imports, including wheat. Imports of certain publications and coal. Amor- tization and interest on registered fi- nancing of unquestionable interest up to 8% per year; earnings on registered capital of "special" interest up to 10% per year. Miscellaneous service pay- ments. 33.82-168.82/CrWS£3 plus Cr$16-160 Premium) Petroleum products.3 18.36 Buying (Official Rate) Government and official receipts. Reg- istered loans, credits, and financing of unquestionable interest. 35.55 (Cr$1836 plus Cr$17.19 Bonus) Category I exports against inconvertible currencies other than "multilateral cur- rencies." 37.06 (Crtl8JS6 plus Cr$18.70 Bonus) Category I exports against convertible currencies and "multilateral currencies." 41.31 (Cr$18.86 plus Cr$2235 Bonus) Category II exports against inconverti- ble currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 43.06 (CrS18JS8 plus Cr$24.70 Bonus) Category II exports against convertible currencies and "multilateral currencies." 52.77 (Cr$183G plus Cr$8441 Bonus) Category III exports against inconverti- ble currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 55.00 (Cr$1836 plus Cr$86.64 Bonus) Category III exports against converti- ble currencies and "multilateral cur- rencies." 8 Since January 1, 1957, imports of petroleum products have been subject to a uniform effective 'rate of Cr$55.70 (Cr$20.70 plus Cr$35 prem ium). 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (cruzeiros per C/'jS. dollar) Buying 63.50 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All incoming capital except registered financing of unquestionable interest. Most invisibles, including travel ex- change. Other items not dealt with in official market. 64.28 (CrS18.3e plus Cr$45.92 Bonus) Category iy exports against inconverti- ble currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 67.00 (Cr$183S plus Cr$48.64 Bonus) Category IV exports against convertible currencies and "multilateral currencies." 58 Selling 62.80-64.40 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Remit- tance Tax plus Cr$4%.10-43.70 Auction Premium) Category I imports. 65.50 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Amortization and interest on unregis- tered financing; repatriation of invest- men ts; earnings on unregistered invest- ments; earnings and interest on capital not benefiting f rom other rates. Tourist expenses and other invisibles not paid at more favorable rates. 77.50-84.20 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Remit- tance Tax plus Cr'$56.80-63.50 Auction Premium) Category II imports. 122.20-129.90 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Cr$101£0- 109.20 Auction Premium) Category III imports. 177.70-195.20 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Cr$157.00- 174-50 Auction Premium) Category IV imports. 306.20-308.70 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Cr$285.50- 288.00 Auction Premium) Category V imports. Note: The auction premiums on which the selling rates are based are the lowest and highest bids for the U.S. dollar (120 days' delivery) in Rio de Janeiro on December 27, 1956. Minimum bids for dollars for the five import categories were set by the SUMOC on April 25, 1955 at Cr$25, Cr$30, Cr$35, Cr$40, and Cr$100, respectively. The auction pre- miums have been in excess of these minimums for U.S. dollars, ACL dollars, Japanese clearing dollars, etc. For some currencies, the minimum bids, in prac- tice, establish the effective rates. (See also footnote 2.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Changes during 1956 January 30. Certain commodities in the first four import categories were reclassified. March 26. The trade and payments agreement with France was extended to June 30, 1956. March 28. The trade and payments agreement with Spain was ex- tended to June 30, 1956. March 31. The trade and payments agreement with Austria was extended to May 31, 1956. April 11. The period within which the exchange certificates acquired at public auction must be paid for was extended to five working days beginning with the day following that of acquisition of the certificate. April 17. Bananas were transferred to Category III of the export classification. April 28. A trade and payments agreement with Israel became effective. May 17. Changes were introduced in the export classifications and in export bonuses, involving the reclassification of some commodities and the establishment of new effective rates for exports in the new Categories III and IV. June 1. A new trade and payments agreement with Italy became effective. On the basis of this agreement, Italy was included in the "multilateral currencies" group of countries and, consequently, effec- tive exchange rates for Brazilian exports to Italy were made equal to those applying to exports against U.S. dollars and "multilateral cur- rencies." Payments for imports from Italy were to be effected through the purchase at auction of exchange certificates denominated in ACL dollars. June 5. Cocoa cake was transferred from Category III to Category II of the export classification. June 13. The trade and payments agreement with Austria was ex- tended to July 15, 1956. June 28. Public Law 2807 extended to December 31, 1956 the powers conferred on the Executive to regulate foreign trade and payments (as set forth in Law 2145, amended by Law 2410). 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL June 29. The trade and payments agreement with Japan was ex- tended to October 31,1956. July 1. A new trade and payments agreement with Iceland became effective. July 4. A new trade and payments agreement with Austria became effective. On the basis of this agreement, Austria was included in the "multilateral currencies" group of countries and, consequently, effec- tive exchange rates for Brazilian exports to Austria were made equal to those applying to exports against U.S. dollars and "multilateral cur- rencies." Payments for imports from Austria were to be effected in sterling through the purchase at auction of exchange certificates denominated in ACL dollars. July 5. The trade and payments agreement with Greece expired. Payments for transactions with Greece would be effected in convertible currencies or "multilateral currencies." July 9. Some additions were made to the list of imports for agri- culture for which exchange is acquired through special auctions. July 10. Changes were made in the list of imports for agriculture for which exchange is acquired through special auctions. July 18. The trade and payments agreement with Spain was extended to September 30, 1956. August 4. It was established that refunds to purchasers of exchange certificates not utilized would be made only within a period of 90 days from the date the certificate was paid for. August 8. Certain commodities in the first four import categories were reclassified. August 16. Changes were made in the list of imports for agriculture for which exchange is acquired through special auctions. August 24. A new trade and payments agreement with France be- came effective. On the basis of this agreement, France was included in the "multilateral currencies" group of countries and, consequently, effective exchange rates for Brazilian exports to France were made equal to those applying to exports against U.S. dollars and "multi- lateral currencies." Payments for imports from France were to be effected through the purchase at auction of exchange certificates de- nominated in ACL dollars. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL September 10. Special auctions were held to allocate exchange for imports of fruits and a few commodities in Category V from Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. September 10. The trade and payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired. September 20. The import classification of certain commodities was changed. September 28. The trade and payments agreement with Spain was extended to December 31, 1956. October 2. The import classification of certain commodities was changed. October 29. Changes were made in the list of imports for agriculture for which exchange is acquired through special auctions. October 30. The trade and payments agreement with Japan was ex- tended to January 31,1957. November 21. The import classification of certain commodities was changed. November 26. Exchange treatment similar to that accorded to the "multilateral currencies" was extended to Argentine clearing dollars. December 26. The trade and payments agreement with Spain was extended to March 31, 1957. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Burmese Kyats 4.76190 = US$1. The kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 = £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling rate and the rates for other currencies in London, maintained within official limits. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board. Import and export controls are managed by the Directorate of Imports and Exports under the administrative control of the Ministry of Trade Development, but export control powers are also exercised by the State Agricultural Marketing Board and the State Timber Board, according to the commodities concerned. The registration of exporters and importers is carried out by the Registration Board. Prescription of Currency Burma is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of cur- rency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in sterling or in the appropriate Sterling Area cur- rency; payments to the dollar area, in sterling through a Canadian or American Account or in Canadian or U.S. dollars; payments to bi- lateral payments agreement countries,1 through bilateral accounts denominated in sterling; payments to other countries, in sterling through a Transferable Account or, for certain countries, in the cur- rency of the country concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods are subject to regulation. There are three open general licenses giving general permission to import certain goods from countries other than Canada and American Account countries 2 and 1 Burma has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 2 The American Account countries are listed as Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA one open general license permitting the import of a few items f rom all countries. All other imports are subject to individual license. If evi- dence of importation has been or will be presented, the authorized banks automatically provide appropriate exchange (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) to pay for permitted imports. All importers must be registered with the official Registration Board. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to license. In general, pay- ments for items connected with trade are allowed and payments for other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Remittances of income arising from investment are permitted freely on application, subject to presentation of evidence that all taxes due in Burma have been paid. Travelers to India may take out not more than Rs 100 in Indian notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Burma has a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodi- ties of local origin which it is desired to conserve for local requirements. No license is required for the export of commodities not specifically included in the lists of items subject to license, but the exporter must obtain the export proceeds in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities. In general, exporters are required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds to an authorized dealer in foreign exchange. All exporters must be registered with the official Registration Board. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts arising f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Capital Foreign business enterprises are permitted to repatriate their capital, on clear evidence of having finally wound up business in Burma. Short- term or seasonal capital that has come into Burma with the approval of the exchange control may be repatriated without evidence that the owner has finally wound up business in Burma. Foreign nationals are allowed to repatriate all their personal assets when they retire. Foreign insurance companies operating in Burma are permitted to remit their surplus funds to their home offices. Where payments in favor of nonresidents are not permitted to be transferred abroad, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to blocked accounts. The utili- zation of balances in blocked accounts is subject to individual permit. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Residents usually are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests are subject to individual license. Changes during 1956 July 18. A new office, the Directorate of Imports and Exports, responsible for the issuance and amendment of import and export licenses, was established under the administrative control of the Min- istry of Trade Development. November 1. The Director of Imports and Exports issued an open general license for imports, f rom any country other than Canada and American Account countries, of certain goods, e.g., toothpaste, talcum powder, printing and writing paper, tires, tubes, dried fish, fishing nets and twines. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is Ceylon Rupees 4.76190 — US$1. The exchange rate system is uniform, the rate for the U.S. dollar being based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate and the sterling-U.S. dollar rate in London, maintained between official limits. The market rate as at December 31, 1956 was Cey Rs 4.775 buying, Cey Rs 4.80 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Bank of Ceylon. All transactions in foreign ex- change in Ceylon must be made through authorized dealers, which are banks authorized to transact business in specified currencies in accord- ance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency The regulations prescribing the currencies to be received from abroad in payment for exports and transactions in invisibles and those to be used for outgoing payments are similar to the regulations of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. In general, the regulations governing outgoing payments provide that beneficiaries resident in the Sterling Area are to be paid in any currency of the Sterling Area; bene- ficiaries resident outside the Sterling Area are to be paid (1) in sterling or in rupees to the credit of a nonresident account related to Canada, the American Account Area, or the Transferable Account Area, accord- ing to the country of origin of the goods, or (2) in some cases, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods. Receipts from foreign transactions, in general, may be in local currency, or from appropriate nonresident sterling accounts in the United Kingdom, or in dollars from Canada or an American Account country, or in any specified currency from a Transferable Account country (see section on Non- resident Accounts and footnote 6 in the survey on the United King- dom). Payments with countries with which there are bilateral pay- ments agreements1 must be effected through the relevant bilateral accounts. 1 Ceylon has bilateral payments arrangements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Poland, and Rumania. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Transactions involving deviation from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts The regulations govering nonresident accounts differentiate between the accounts of banks and of persons and firms abroad. Although there are no specific provisions to enable the individual nonresident to obtain conversion into his own currency of amounts credited to his account, transfers for banks and correspondents from rupee accounts in Ceylon to corresponding Sterling Area Accounts, Transferable Area Accounts, and Dollar Area Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of a few items, such as firearms for use by the armed forces, imports of goods are subject to regulation. However, many commodities are governed by open general licenses and may be imported freely without individual licenses. Open General License No. 1 authorizes the import of a wide range of commodities from all sources except the dollar area 2 and certain other countries.3 Open General License No. 2 lists items that may be imported from the dollar area. Open General License No. 4 applies to certain goods which may be imported from all sources except the dollar area and certain other countries.4 Open General License No. 5 permits the import of fish from the Maldive Islands. In addition, registered Ceylonese traders may import specified commodities without quantitative restriction from Austria, Czechoslovakia, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Poland, and Yugoslavia, under general import licenses issued to them, and from other countries excluded from the open general license facili- ties, under individual import licenses. Registered Ceylonese traders wishing to place orders for these goods through an indent agent must do so through registered Ceylonese indent agents. All other items require individual import licenses, and policy concerning their issue is 2 In the Ceylon regulations, the dollar area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 3 These countries are Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Estonia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Japan, Latvia, Lithu- ania, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 4 These countries are those in footnote 3, together with Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON announced annually. No licenses are issued for some products grown or manufactured locally. Some essential items, such as sugar, flour, and rice, are imported only on government account. An authorized dealer may approve an application for the remittance of foreign exchange or for the transfer of rupees to a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furn ish, evi- dence of importation and cost of goods, together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. When the goods are under open general license, the applicant must have made a declaration to that effect on the application. The currency and method of payment must normally be in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange license. Author- ized dealers may sell foreign exchange in accordance with a detailed set of regulations. Payments for freight and other services in connection with the international transport of goods are allowed. Payments for international travel fares are permitted, provided certain conditions are met. Payments for business travel are also allowed, on application. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic rations, which vary according to the country to be visited; however, no basic ration is allocated for tourist travel to the dollar area. Other remit- tances of a personal nature are granted for reasonable requirements for education, travel, health, or family reasons. Business remittances to any country normally are approved, particularly when they are of a recurring or contractual nature, e.g., insurance premiums. Emigrants (Ceylonese nationals) are permitted to transfer their entire assets if emigrating to a Sterling Area country or to Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, but only up to certain limits if emigrating to any other coun- try outside the Sterling Area. Remittances of profits and dividends of nonresidents are permitted freely. Travelers may export foreign ex- change declared at the time of entry. The export of currency notes is limited to Cey Rs 50 per person per six months. Exports and Export Proceeds For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all but a few commodities. Exports of certain manufactured goods and re-exports of foreign manufactured articles are allowed only under 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. Licenses for exports to Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Rumania are issued only to reg- istered Ceylonese traders. An exchange control export license is not issued unless the exporter undertakes to recover payment for the full value of the goods and to deliver the export proceeds to ail authorized dealer, usually within six months from the date of shipment but in certain cases within shorter periods, depending on the destination of the goods. The currencies in which payments for exports to different countries or monetary areas must be received are stipulated in the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender at the official rate of incoming foreign exchange from invisibles is required. Such proceeds have to be received in specified currencies, following the prescription of currency requirements appli- cable to export proceeds. Travelers are not restricted in the amounts of foreign funds they may carry into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments, but they are obliged to declare, upon entering, their holdings of currency notes and coins. The import of sterling notes in excess of £10 is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange, and the import of Indian and Pakistan currency notes, as well as of Ceylon notes, is restricted to a maximum of Rs 100, of which Pakistan notes should not exceed Rs 50. No restriction on the import of other currency notes and coins is in force. Capital Certain capital movements between Ceylon and the rest of the Ster- ling Area are permitted freely, namely, the voluntary repatriation of investments of persons resident in the rest of the Sterling Area, the transfer of savings by persons temporarily resident in Ceylon and re- turning to another Sterling Area country for permanent residence, and the transfer to Ceylon of capital held in the rest of the Sterling Area by Ceylonese nationals. Also, transfers of capital to Ceylon are per- mitted for direct investment in Ceylonese businesses or for the estab- lishment of branches or agencies of concerns resident in the United Kingdom or in the rest of the Sterling Area, if the authorities are satis- fied that such transfers are for desirable trade and commercial purposes. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Different regulations cover capital movements between Ceylon and countries outside the Sterling Area. Generally, inward transfers for investment in approved projects are permitted freely. Remittances of a capital nature—e.g., to purchase securities, properties, or annuities abroad —are restricted. Securities owned by residents and on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (or the holder has an option to require payment of the principal, interest, or dividends) in either U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars have to be registered with the Controller of Exchange, and no person is allowed, except with the permission of the Minister of Finance, to sell or transfer such securities. Since the end of 1949, capital invested in Ceylon by a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area may be repatriated at his request up to the amount of the original investment, provided the investment had received prior approval Changes during 1956 February 20. An import notice was published, setting out in detail the import policy for the year beginning July 1, 1955 and listing the items to be imported under the various open general licenses. Open General License No. 3, which authorized imports of certain meats and meat products, butter, cheese, and oils and fats from all but a few countries, was withdrawn. March 13. A payments agreement was signed with Czechoslovakia. June 13 An import control notice was issued to the effect that reg- istered Ceylonese traders wishing to place orders through indent agents for imports from certain countries (imports from which are reserved for them) could do so only through Ceylonese indent agents registered with the Controller of Imports and Exports. June 14. Spain was added to the list of countries imports from which are reserved for registered Ceylonese traders. July 10. Licenses for exports to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Rumania would be issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. July 27. Several items were added to Open General License No. 2 (which permits imports of specified commodities from the dollar area), including prepared cereal foods, skimmed preserved milk, raw sugar, cotton, stearic acid, tin plate, cutlery, razor blades, certain manu- factures of oil, steel, brass, and copper, and certain kinds of oil and fat, both animal and vegetable. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON August 10. Afghanistan was included as one of the neighboring countries (a group which consists of India, Pakistan, Malaya, Burma, Iraq, Indonesia, Iran, and Saudi Arab ia) for the purpose of granting a basic ration of exchange for travel. September 13. A fur ther relaxation of restrictions on imports from the dollar area was announced. All items that had been subject to monetary ceilings were placed in the liberal licensing category, which allows for virtually unrestricted imports. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System The par value of Chilean Pesos 110 = US$1, established on Octo- ber 5, 1953, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. No new par value has been proposed. There are two exchange markets: the banking free market, where authorized banks may purchase any exchange and may sell exchange to cover imports and invisible payments expressly included in a permitted list; and the brokers7 free market, in which dealers other than the authorized banks may buy and sell exchange freely for purposes not covered by the banking free market. For imports of certain essentials settled at the banking rate, importers are compensated for the differ- ence between the banking rate and that of Chil$300 per US$1. There is a tax of 5 per c en tx applied to the sale of exchange by banks, or by persons or entities authorized to cover import transactions or to issue drafts, and a tax of Chil$15 per US$1 applied to the same transactions. The Central Bank of Chile deals in exchange only with the Govern- ment and its agencies (including autonomous agencies) and authorized banks. It will freely buy and sell the following currencies: U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Argentine agreement dollars, Swiss francs, and such other exchange or payments agreement account currencies 2 as it may decide from time to time. The Central Bank buys and sells agreement account currencies only occasionally; but it is the sole buyer and seller of Argentine agreement dollars. The Central Bank determines the rate of exchange for these transactions in accordance with supply and demand in the banking free market. The authorized banks may deal spot in any currency (including agreement currencies) with their clients or with other authorized banks and, up to specified limits, forward up to 90 days in any currency to cover payment for imports or exports. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Commission (Comision de Cambios Interna- tionales) is in charge of the operation of the exchange system. Some 1 From August 19, 1956, when it was introduced, until January 19, 1957, this tax had been 1 per cent. 2 Chile has bilateral agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, France, Italy, Spain, and Yugoslavia. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE functions of the Commission have been delegated to local commissions in important cities. Under Article 8 of Law 12084, the Foreign Ex- change Commission must propose to the Ministry of Finance a list of permitted import goods and payments, which is made effective by a Supreme Decree of the Ministry. Any modification of the list is also made by Supreme Decree of the Ministry, on the proposals of the Foreign Exchange Commission. Import payments and payments for invisibles are made through the banking free market, with no limitation other than that they must be on the list. The commercial banks are authorized to operate in the banking free market, and various exchange dealers, tourist agencies, and hotels are authorized as dealers to operate in the brokers' free market. Prescription of Currency Payments for transactions with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, France, Italy, Spain, and Yugoslavia must be made according to the method and in the currency established in the regulations that give effect to the terms of the payments or compensation agreements with those countries. Exports of copper by the large companies must be paid for in U.S. dollars or other currencies as specially authorized by the Copper Department of the Central Bank. Iron ore exports must be paid for in U.S. dollars. All other transactions may be settled in any currency, irrespective of the country of origin or destination of the payment. Authorized banks may freely convert any currency into U.S. dollars, sterling, or Swiss francs, but may not convert these currencies into a currency other than these without specific approval for each conversion. Imports and Import Payments Only goods specified by the Ministry of Finance in a list of permitted imports may be imported. All other imports, with a few exceptions, are prohibited. Imports are not subject to license; however, an importer must make an advance deposit, for which a certificate is issued by the Central Bank. This certificate is required by a bank before it may handle an import transaction and is also used to obtain a consular authorization for shipment of the goods from the country of origin. Both the advance deposit certificate and the consular authorization are required for customs clearance at the port of entry into Chile. Some authorized imports also require a certificate of necessity from the Min- istry of Economy. The purchase of exchange or the refund of an advance deposit is subject to two taxes: ( 1 )5 per cent (see footnote 1) 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE applied to the sale of exchange by banks, or by persons or entities authorized to cover import transactions or to issue drafts, and (2) Chil$15 per US$1 applied to the same transactions. Certain essen- tial imports are exempt from all or part of these taxes. The taxes are collected for the Foreign Exchange Commission by the authorized bank receiving the advance deposit. The amount of the advance deposit is fixed from time to time by the Foreign Exchange Commission as a percentage —currently up to 400 per cent—of the value of the import in Chilean pesos converted at the rate of exchange that the Commission establishes weekly for this pur- pose based on the banking free market rate in the preceding week. For goods imported on a consignment basis, a 5 per cent advance deposit is required. For goods imported on a deferred payments basis, the advance deposit required is the amount of the downpayment. For goods imported on a cash basis, six categories of goods have been estab- lished for the purpose of determining the percentage of advance deposit payable, as follows: Category A (5 per cent): cellulose, raw rubber, crude oil, wheat, yerba mate, tea, sugar, lubricants, gasoline, kerosene Category B (50 per cen t): sewing machines, wool tops, cotton, coffee, asbestos, chassis for trucks and buses, buses, tires, spare parts for motor vehicles Category C (100 per cent): most antibiotics, chemicals, paraffin wax, plastic raw materials, tubes, newsprint, business machines Category D (150 per cen t): tin plate, films Category E (200 per cent): pickup trucks Category F (400 per cen t): glassless station wagons The advance deposit certificate, duly signed by the importer, serves as a guarantee for the authorized bank to cover the sale of exchange. Exchange for imports may be sold freely on a spot basis or for 90 days forward by the authorized banks to anyone complying with these re- quirements. Payments are subject to the currency prescription arrange- ments (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). If the import transaction is not completed, the amount of the deposit less the amount of the taxes is refunded against surrender of the advance deposit certifi- cate. Imports by the large companies concerned with mining iron, copper, nitrates, or iodine, imports by governmental departments and agencies, imports under loans or credits from the Export-Import Bank of Washington or the International Bank for Reconstruction and De- velopment, imports under the Surplus Agricultural Commodities Agree- 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE ment with the United States, and imports of capital are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Government departments and agen- cies require permission from the Ministry of Economy for imports other than for national defense. Banks are allowed to sell only the amounts of foreign exchange specified in the advance, deposit certificates. Imports of essential goods, up to a specified total amount, are eligible to receive a rebate, which is established in the following manner: The cost of the purchase of exchange, plus the import duty payable, is com- puted as if the rate of exchange were Chil$300 per US$1. The difference between the amount so computed and the actual cost of the exchange plus duty is refunded to the importer by the Central Bank, against appropriate certificates from the customs authorities and the bank that handled the import arrangements, showing details of the transaction. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks may sell exchange to cover payments for speci- fied invisibles, including the following main items: freights, marine insurance and reinsurance, commissions on trade transactions, com- munications services, government payments, students7 expenses, cor- respondence courses, hiring of teachers and technical commissions, and interest, amortization, and profits. There is a tax of 5 per cent (see foot- note 1) on all sales of exchange. Payments for other invisibles may be made freely through the brokers' free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of copper, nitrates, and iodine (the major portion of Chilean exports) are not subject to export license, but copper companies must obtain approval from the Copper Department of the Central Bank for their shipments. Exports of iron ore are authorized globally by the Foreign Exchange Commission. The export of some specified commodi- ties is prohibited. Other exports require licenses. The proceeds from certain exports must be received in a prescribed currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). For all exports except those by the large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine), it is stipulated by law that, within a period of 90 days from the date of shipment, or;within such period as.may, in special cases, be established, exporters must repatriate in instruments of inter- national exchange the total value of their exports and must liquidate this value within 10 days from its repatriation, through an authorized bank or entity. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consign- ment basis must be arranged through an authorized bank, which must 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. The bank issues a certificate that payment has been made or arranged in an approved manner, to enable clearance of the export through customs. The large copper and iron mines and the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (COVENSA) are, in general, not subject to the normal surrender arrangements. Large copper companies are required to sell to the Central Bank of Chile the necessary foreign exchange to meet their domestic costs of production. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from invisibles arising from trade transactions must be sold in the banking free market along with the export proceeds. Exchange from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers7 free market. Capital Large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Under the terms of a decree of November 10, 1953 (amended Febru- ary 2, 1954), foreign capital brought into Chile in the form of foreign exchange, raw materials, or equipment, when invested in approved enterprises, is given the following guarantees and exemptions: (1) the repatriation of capital after 5 years in annual quotas not exceeding 20 per cent per annum of the value of the investment; (2) transfers abroad of earnings on the investment, for a period of at least 10 years, and possibly up to 20 years; (3) exemption from customs duties on new machinery for industries not already existing in Chile which use domestic raw materials in a proportion of at least 80 per cent; (4) guarantees for at least 10 years against changes in taxes, for invest- ments intended for the establishment of basic industries not already existing in Chile; (5) the right to reassess capital for tax purposes in accordance with fluctuations in the rate of exchange from year to year. Earnings on such capital, if reinvested in Chile, enjoy the rights and exemptions indicated under (2) and (5), above. Capital is granted favorable treatment when invested (1) in export industries which can compete in the international market without government assistance; (2) in production for the domestic market of goods which at present must be imported, also without government 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE assistance; or (3) in industries using a proportion (at least 80 per cent) of domestic raw materials to provide goods for the domestic market at reduced cost for the customer. The Foreign Investment Commission supervises capital imports. Exchange operations related to foreign capital investments covered by the decree of November 10,1953 have to be effected through author- ized banks and the amount of foreign exchange needed for remittances from these investments may be obtained in the banking free market. For other investments, transfers may be made at the brokers' free rate. Transfers of capital by residents into and out of Chile, if required to be made through the banking free market, are subject to individual license. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely through the brokers' free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956)3 (pesos per L/jS. dollar) Buying Setting 547 (approx.) (Banking Free Market) All exports and related invisibles. Capi- tal subject to decree of November 10, 1953 as amended. 300 Effective rate, after subsidies, for speci- fied essentials up to certain limits of total imports. 547 (approx.) (Banking Free Market) All imports and related invisibles. Gov- ernment invisibles; payments to stu- dents abroad; cost of correspondence courses; payments to foreign teachers and technical commissions. Capital, in- cluding profits, dividends, interest, and amortization, subject to decree of No- vember 10, 1953 as amended. 600 (approx.) (Brokers' Free Market) Other invisibles, including tourist re- ceipts. Other capital. 600 (approx.) (Brokers' Free Market) Other invisibles, including tourist pay- ments. Other capital. Changes during 1956 April 20. Substantial changes took place in the exchange system of Chile. Import licensing was abolished and imports of listed goods were permitted without limitation, subject to advance deposits ranging from 8 This table does not take account of the two exchange taxes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 5 per cent to 400 per cent. The previously existing multiple exchange rate structure was replaced by a free, fluctuating exchange market for all commodity transactions, while the brokers' free market continued to be applicable to private capital transactions and some invisibles. August 19. The National Foreign Trade Council (CONDECOR), which was in charge of the operation of the exchange system, was replaced by a Foreign Exchange Commission. Law No. 12084 intro- duced a 1 per cent tax on sales of exchange by banks, or by persons or entities authorized to cover import transactions or to issue drafts. (Effective January 19, 1957, Law No. 12428 increased this tax to 5 per cent.) Certain changes were made in the list of authorized imports. September 30. The payments agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany expired. Operations concluded prior to this date would continue to be settled through the agreement account, but new trans- actions would be settled in transferable currencies. November 17. The advance deposit for imports of station wagons a,ud'furgones was increased from 200 per cent to 400 per cent. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. A multiple exchange rate system arises f rom the use of negotiable exchange certificates and of an exchange certificate rate for all receipts and payments of fore ign exchange. Various effective rates result from the different "mixing" arrangements for export proceeds, and f rom the coexistence of a fixed price and a fluctuating price for exchange certificates. A defense tax of 20 per cent is levied on all import payments and on payments for invisibles. (See Table of Ex- change Rates, below.) Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission is the control authority on the policy level. Its decisions are implemented by the Bank of Taiwan, through which all sales and purchases of foreign exchange must be effected. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, sterling, or, in a few cases, Ma layan dollars or other foreign currencies approved by the exchange control authorities. There are no legal obli- gations prescribing the channel of payment to persons abroad (except for Japan, trade with which is conducted through special settlement accounts under the terms of an agreement). Payments must be made in U.S. dollars or sterling, according to the currency area involved, and hard currency generally is not provided for payments to soft currency countries where the Bank of Taiwan has balances in those currencies. Nonresident Accounts The exchange control system does not differentiate between the accounts of residents and those of nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports require individual import licenses, which are issued to registered importers under a two-month import allocation system. Imports of certain specified luxuries are prohibited, and imports of specified commodities which may be produced locally or of which there are sufficient stocks are temporarily suspended. Registered importers 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) are classified as traders, industrial end-users, and direct end-users. Import allocations for traders are based on a general commodity budget, for industrial end-users on their production needs, and for direct end-users on their needs of specified goods. When the import license is granted, the holder is automatically entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Bank of Taiwan. Payments for imports made by government agencies, speci- fied public enterprises, end-users, or importers of industrial raw mate- rials are made at a fixed rate of NT$24.78 per US$1; payments for all other imports are made at a fluctuating rate of exchange (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for fam i ly maintenance are restricted by a monthly quota fixed by the authorities. For such trade items as freight and insurance, permission to effect payment is-determined by the approval to import the related commodities. Application for ex- change for invisibles must be made to the Remittance Department of the Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission, which passes its recommendations to the Commission for final decision. In general, reasonable amounts of foreign exchange are granted for transfers of reinsurance premiums and for travel other than for pleasure. All pay- ments for invisibles are made at the fixed rate of NT$24.78 per US$1. Travelers leaving Taiwan may take with them no more than US$200 in foreign currency and no more than NT$500 in Taiwan currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are granted to exporters after the Bank of Taiwan has examined and verified the amount of foreign exchange involved in the export. All export proceeds must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, sterling, or, in a few cases, Ma layan dollars or other foreign currencies approved by the exchange control authorities. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered at the Bank of Taiwan rate of NT$15.55 per US$1. In addition, exchange certificates are issued equivalent to 80 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the proceeds. These foreign exchange certificates are valid for four months. They are negotiable, with the exception of those representing proceeds from exports of sugar, rice, and salt, which are exchanged at a fixed price of NT$6 per US$1. Free market rates for certificates have fluctuated from NT$6 to NT$13.50 per US$1. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Taiwan. Receipts by government agencies and specified public enter- prises are converted at a rate of NT$24.68 per US$1; receipts by private individuals may be converted also at the rate of NT$24.68, or at the Bank of Taiwan rate of NT$15.55 plus an equivalent amount of the proceeds in exchange certificates. Diplomatic and foreign military personnel are granted a preferential rate of NT$34 per US$1 for receipts surrendered by them. Travelers entering Taiwan may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it. The import of domestic currency is limited to NT$500 per traveler. Capital Capital payments due to nonresidents normally are not permitted, and the repatriation of foreign capital is allowed only in special cir- cumstances. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) free transfer of profits in the original currency of the investment at a yearly rate not exceeding 15 per cent of the value of the investment; (2) repatriation of capital (including reinvested earnings) two years af ter the investment has been made at a yearly rate not exceeding 15 per cent of the total investment; (3) immunity from ex- propriation during ten years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent of the total investment. The preferential rate of NT$34 per US$1 is applied to foreign exchange sold by foreign investors. New capital investments abroad by residents are prohibited. Resi- dents are permitted to hold foreign exchange representing capital receipts in an account in foreign currency and may dispose of this exchange by surrendering it to the Bank of Taiwan for local currency at NT$15.55 plus the exchange certificate, or for local currency at NT$24.68 per US$1, or for remittance abroad. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange'Rates (as at December 31,1956) (new Taiwan dollars per U.S. dollar) CHINA (Taiwan) Buying 20.35 (NT&16M plus 80% of Fixed Value of Exchange Certificate) Exports of sugar, rice, and salt. 24.68 (NTU6.56 plus Equivalent of NTS3.13 Defense Tax plus Fixed Value of Exchange Certificate) Private receipts if recipient chooses to receive payment in local currency of equivalent value of exchange certifi- cates. Receipts by government agencies and specified public enterprises. 26.35 (NT$15.56 plus 80% of Fluctu- ating Value of Exchange Cer- tificate) All other exports. 29.05 (NT$16.65 plus Fluctuating Value of Exchange Certificate) Private receipts if recipient chooses to receive exchange certificates. 34.00 (Preferential Rate) Receipts sold by foreign diplomatic and military personnel. Receipts for invest- ment purposes. Setting 24.78 (NTU6.65 plus NTS3.18 Defense Tax plus Fixed Value of Ex- change Certificate) All imports and remittances by govern- ment agencies, specified public enter- prises, and certain others. All invisibles. 32.28 (NTM6.65 plus NTtS.lS Defense Tax plus Fluctuating Value of Exchange Certificate) All other imports. Note: Although a fixed price of NT$6 per US$1 was established for the foreign exchange certificates, these certificates were also traded at rates ranging from NT$6 to NT$13.50 per US$1. Since November 1955, the Bank of Taiwan has inter- vened in the market by selling exchange certificates at a price of NT$13.50 per US$1; this is the current market price for the exchange certificate and was used in calculating the effective rates in the table. Changes during 1956 January 13. Commercial banks were permitted to sell exchange cer- tificates on behalf of exporters in order to smooth out demand for and supply of certificates in the market. February 10. The regulations covering foreign currency deposits were revised. Deposits made in clearing account dollars could no longer be converted into U.S. dollars for transfer to countries other than Japan; and deposits made in U.S. dollars could no longer be transferred to Hong Kong. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) March 26. The quotation for the Philippine peso was revised to NT$7.77 buying, NT$7.82 selling, per P 1, to adjust for the elimination in the Philippines of the 17 per cent exchange tax. May 4. The payments agreement with France was terminated. Under the provisions of the revised trade agreement, exchange transactions between the two countries would be in U.S. dollars, sterling, or transfer- able French francs. June 1. A quotation for the Italian lira of NT$248.80 buying, NT$250.04 selling, per Lit 10,000, was announced. June 8. The effective buying rate of NT$21.55 per US$1 for receipts by government agencies and public enterprises was abolished. July L The proceeds of exports of salt were shifted from the 50 per cent exchange certificate category to the 80 per cent category. The effect of this shift was to eliminate the effective buying rate of NT$18.55 per US$1. The preferential rate was adjusted from NT$36 to NT$35 per US$1. July 28. A quotation for the French f ranc of NT$444.29 buying, NT$447.14 selling, per F 10,000, was announced (see May 4, above). August 11. The period of validity for exchange certificates was increased from 90 days to 120 days. August 27. A quotation for the deutsche mark of NT$3.70 buying, NT$3.73 selling, per DM 1, was announced. September 1. The preferential rate was adjusted from NT$35 to NT$34 per US$1. October 4. The preferential rate was applied to receipts for invest- ments made by foreigners and overseas Chinese. October 29. The effective rate of NT$22.30 per US$1 for exports of bananas to Japan was eliminated. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value of Colombian Pesos 1.94998 = US$1, established December 17, 1948, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. The official rates are Ps$2.50 buying, Ps$2.51 selling, per US$1. Taxes of 3 or 6 per cent on noncommercial payments yield two additional selling rates. A fluctuating free rate for exchange certificates (titulos de divisas) applies to all imports not classified in Group I Special or in Group I, to exports of most minor products and of bananas, to most invisibles, and to part of the proceeds of coffee exports (US$17.50 per 70-kilogram bag ). Multiple rates result from the existence of this free exchange certificate market, the application of exchange taxes, and a mixing arrangement for freight charges. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To make imports f rom, exports to, or exchange payments to, foreign countries, prior application for the registration of the transaction must be made at the Exchange Registration Office,1 which is dependent on the Bank of the Republic. Purchases and sales of official exchange may be made either through the Bank of the Republic or through the commercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. Purchases and sales of exchange certificates (titulos de divisas) in the free market must be made through the commercial banks. A Stabilization Fund is also authorized to buy certificates f rom banks and individuals, and to sell them to banks for sale to the public. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Payments to and receipts from Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, East Germany, Italy, or Spain must be effected through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the related bilateral payments agreement. Under the agreements with Denmark and Italy, goods originating in third countries and pur- chased in an agreement country may be settled through the agreement account by mutual consent of the agreement partners. i From October 11, 1956, the Exchange Registration Office approved only essen- tial applications for registration of imports. It resumed registration of imports in Group I Special on January 14, 1957, in Group II on January 21, 1957, in Group III on January 28, 1957, and in Group I on February 4, 1957. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Nonresident Accounts Commercial banks are authorized to debit and/or credit the accounts of nonresidents without special permission f rom the Exchange Regis- tration Office, which has, however, reserved the right to suspend such authorization whenever it deems necessary. The balances on these accounts may be used freely, but when applied to imports, payments for services, repatriation of registered capital, or other transactions entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate, the requirements estab- lished for each individual case must be fulfilled. Imports and Import Payments All imports require prior application for import registration. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. Import commodities are classified in four groups, I Special, I, II, and III;2 there is also a list of prohibited items and another list of items the import of which is suspended. To the four groups are applied stamp taxes of 10, 40, 60, or 90 per cent, respectively (with exceptions for imports of certain machinery), calculated on the basis of the official buying rate and collected in advance with each application for import registration. In addition, a cash deposit of, respectively, 40, 50, 60, or 80 per cent of the peso value of the import, also calculated on the official buying rate, has to be paid as a prerequisite to import registration; this deposit is returned when the arrival of the goods in Colombia has been confirmed. Payments for imports in all groups also require prior exchange registra- tion. This is granted in f.o.b. terms upon submission of the import registration and evidence that the goods have entered Colombia.3 Payments for imports classified in Group I Special and Group I are made at the Ps$2.51 rate. Payments for imports classified in Groups II and III are made through the free certificate market in U.S. dollars only. Importers may purchase free certificate market exchange from the commercial banks authorized for this type of transaction. Imports of potatoes, wheat, spelt, maslin, and flours made thereof, rice, barley, corn, wheat groats, and some legumes and vegetables may be made only by the Corporation for the Protection of Agricultural Products. 2 This grouping was established on December 20, 1956, but it did not come into actual use until January 14, 1957. 3 As from January 24, 1957, exchange registrations for imports in Group I Spe- cial and Group I are not granted until 120 days after the shipment of the goods, except for imports from bilateral clearing partners. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Payments for Invisibles Official exchange is granted for the following invisibles: national government services; installments of principal and interest on the official external medium-term and long-term debt; repatriation of registered foreign capital and dividends thereon; and installments of principal and interest on external medium-term and long-term debts registered be fo re October 21, 1955 and owed by semiofficial or private entities. Official exchange is also granted (since January 1, 1957) to students abroad engaged in postgraduate studies, or taking professional courses not available in Colombia, or studying a r t; to persons sent by official or semiofficial institutions to study their specialties; and to persons holding scholarships in foreign countries and needing an additional amount for living expenses. The limits for payments to students are US$150 per month for the United States, Canada, and Europe (except Spain), and US$80 per month for Spain and Latin America, but an additional US$800 is granted for matriculation in the United States or Canada. Official exchange is also given for consular fees and forwarding agents' commissions related to imports in Group I Special or Group I, and for 50 per cent of freight charges to Colombian ports on imports in Group I Special or Group I. Transfers of up to US$1,500 at the official rate are allowed for medical treatment abroad. Payments and remittances for these items require prior registration and are subject to exchange taxes of 3 or 6 per cent (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Payments for all other invisibles must be made through the free certificate market and are subject to license. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior application for registration. If the applica- tion meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the appli- cation form, i.e., registration is granted. Part of the exchange proceeds from exports of coffee (US$87.50 per 70-kilogram bag), and exchange from exports of raw cattle hides and petroleum, must be surrendered at the official rate. Minimum surrender prices are established for exports of coffee and bananas. For part of the exchange proceeds from exports of coffee (US$17.50 per 70-kilogram bag) and for all exchange that need not be surrendered at the official rate, exporters receive exchange certificates (titulos de divisas), which are freely negotiable but limited in application. Exporters sell the certificates to importers of merchandise in Groups II and III or to persons who wish to make payments abroad under this system. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of registered capital and other receipts at the official rate that create a fu ture charge on the official exchange hold- ings, exchange receipts from invisibles are required to be negotiated in the free certificate market. Capital Foreign capital may either be registered at the official rate, in which case it is entitled to remittance of profits and repatriation of the capital at the official rate plus a 3 per cent stamp tax (agricultural, industrial, and mining equipment and machinery classified in Groups I Special and I may be imported in this w a y ); or it may be registered for conversion into exchange certificates, in which case it is entitled to remittance of profits and repatriation of the capital in exchange-certifi- cates, without payment of the 3 per cent stamp tax. Capital may not be imported in the fo rm of machinery and equipment under the certificate system. Cash credits in foreign currency may be entered under either system. Transfers abroad of capital and profits under either system require prior approval. Transfers of capital not regis- tered under one of the two systems are prohibited. Residents may not export capital by means of exchange certificates. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) COLOMBIA (pesos per U.S. dollar) 2.50 Buying (Official Rate) Exports of raw cattle hides and petroleum. Part (US$87.50 per 70-kilo- gram bag) of coffee export proceeds. Investments for development of the petroleum industry. Capital and loans in cash registered at the official rate. Selling 2.51 (Official Rate) Official payments, including some gov- ernment imports.4 Imports in Group I Special and Group I.5 Certain invisibles, e.g., students' essential expenses up to certain limits. 2.585 (Ps$2.51 plus Stamp Tax of 8% at PsW.50) Duly registered semiofficial and private foreign debts, medium- or long-term. Most commercial invisibles. Repatria- tion of capital and repayment of loans in cash registered at the official rate. 2.66 (Ps$2.51 plus Stamp Tax of 8% and Resident Tax of 3%, both at Payments for medical treatment abroad, up to a certain amount and in specified circumstances. 6.50 (Fluctuating Rate for Exchange Certificates [Titulos de Divisas] ) Imports in Groups II and III.6 All other trade and nontrade payments. Repatriation of capital and repayment of loans in cash registered under the certificate system. 6.49 (Fluctuating Rate for Exchange Certificates [Titulos de Divisas]) Part (US$17.50 per 70-kilogram bag) of coffee export proceeds. Other export proceeds. Invisibles. Capital and loans in cash registered under the certificate system. Note: An additional effective selling rate arises from the use of the official rate for 50 per cent of freight charges on Group I Special and Group I imports, the balance being obtained in the cer- tificate market. 4 As a general rule, official payments and imports are subject to stamp taxes, but there are certain exceptions: those made under effective contracts; those established by public treaty; imports of items for the national defense; those of the Office of the President of the Republic; those of the General Customs Bureau and of the Office of the Chief of National Revenues and Taxes, for technical work in connection with services; and others authorized for certain industries in which the Government participates. Also, the exemptions to which the ministries and official and semiofficial institutions are entitled are subject to government approval in each case. 5 These imports (with few exceptions) are subject to a stamp tax of 10 per cent on Group I Special and 40 per cent on Group I, collected on the value in Colombian currency of each registration application, calculated at the rate of Ps$2.50. 6 These imports (with few exceptions) are subject to a stamp tax of 60 per cent on Group II and 90 per cent on Group III, collected on the value in Colombian currency of each registration application, calculated at the rate of Ps$2.50. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Changes during 1956 March 22. A new trade and payments agreement with Italy was signed. April 5. Eleven items were moved from the Preferential Group of imports to Group I and 180 items were moved from Group I to Group II Special. April 11. The regulations providing for bilateral balancing of pay- ments with individual countries and for private barter arrangements were abolished. The percentages of advance deposits on import regis- trations for the six import groups were changed f rom 20, 24, 24, 30, 40, or 60 per cent, to 40, 50, 50, 60, 80, or 100 per cent, respectively. June 25. An option was given to all importers waiting for exchange authorizations to buy immediately official exchange at the official rate of Ps$2.51 per US$1 for one half of the value of their pending applica- tions for exchange, provided they obtained the other half in the free market. July 13. A resolution of the Bank of the Republic established a scale of priorities for the payment of commercial arrears. Accordingly, all exchange available from July 1 on was to be distributed in reasonable proportions, as follows: (1) payments for exchange applications pend- ing on June 30, particularly those connected with repatriation of capital, dividends, freight, and imports of commodities included in the Preferen- tial Group and Group I; (2) payments for exchange applications for- warded after July 1. Payments for applications connected with commodities transferred to the free market in October 1955 and April 1956 were to be subject to a longer delay. August 31. The operations of the commercial banks in the free market were limited to those effected at a buying rate of Ps$4.50 per US$1 or a selling rate of Ps$4.52 per US$1. October 10. The limitations established on August 31, 1956 on the operations of the commercial banks in the free market were abolished. October 11. The Exchange Registration Office was closed for an indefinite period of time, except for the consideration of applications for vital imports. October 23. The commercial agreement with Uruguay expired. October 31. The institutions entitled to exemption f rom stamp tax were specified. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA November 2. The list of prohibited imports was enlarged by some 450 items, mainly by shifting to it import items from groups subject to the free market. November 30. The free market was changed into a free certificate market. Exporters and other recipients of exchange would negotiate exchange through commercial banks, receiving exchange certificates (titulos de divisas) which could be sold to importers or other indi- viduals authorized to effect free market transactions. Transactions in the free certificate market had to be made through commercial banks. In some instances, the Bank of the Republic could issue certificates direct to the public, and the Stabilization Fund was authorized to buy certificates from banks and individuals and to sell certificates to banks. Outgoing capital payments and transactions in invisibles effected through the free certificate market were made subject to license. December 4. New regulations were established for official dollar transfers for students abroad, to be effective January 1, 1957. December 17. The surrender price for proceeds of coffee exports was raised to US$105 per 70-kilogram bag. Of this price, US$87.50 is surrendered at the official rate of Ps$2.50 and US$17.50 gives rise to exchange certificates. December 20. The previous classification of imports was replaced by new groups, as follows: I Special, I, II, and III, a prohibited list, and a suspended list. (The prohibited list had been established earlier— see November 2, above.) The groups of permitted imports were made subject to stamp taxes of 10, 40, 60, or 90 per cent, and to prior deposits in local currency of 40, 50, 60, or 80 per cent, respectively. These changes did not take effect until the Exchange Registration Office was reopened in January 1957. However, the earlier system was not used after December 20, 1956. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 5.615 ^= US$1. A multiple rate system arises from the coexistence of an official and a f ree market. The official rates are <£ 5.60 for exports, 0 5.67 for essential imports, per US$1. The selling rate in the free market, covering all other imports and almost all invisibles, has been maintained at $ 6.65 per US$1 since July 23, 1952. The use of this market for part of the proceeds of some exports results in effective rates of 0 6.27 and </J 6.62 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica, and all official market transactions must be licensed by the Bank, which processes applications for payments in chronological order. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are conducted through the Central Bank or through authorized banks. Free market transactions are conducted through the commercial banks and private dealers, independently of the Central Bank, but the Central Bank has the right to operate in the free market with the object of trying to regulate the rate of exchange in that market. Prescription of Currency Nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are effected in U.S. dollars. Costa Rica does not maintain any payments or clearing agree- ments with other countries. Imports and Import Payments An importer may order any goods from abroad and have them entered through the Costa Rican customs without control or restriction. Control over payments for imports is exercised only in respect of essen- tial imports paid at the official rate; these imports consist of some 512 items included in a "List of Primary Needs," and represent approxi- mately 45 per cent of total imports. An exchange license from the Central Bank must be obtained to effect payments for imports at the official market rate. In general, these licenses are issued automatically and without delay. Payments for non- essential and luxury imports must be made through the free market, 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA where the importer may purchase the necessary exchange without limi- tation. Under contracts signed with the Costa Rican Government, sev- eral foreign-owned banana companies may effect certain essential imports in lieu of surrendering exchange f rom their exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments permitted at the official selling rate are government pay- ments, earnings of registered foreign capital invested a f ter January 30, 1933 (other than of foreign investments governed by special contracts), up to 10 per cent annually of the investment, and specified expenses of students who are taking specialized courses abroad and are registered with the Central Bank. These transactions require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon submission to the Central Bank of an application with appropriate substantiating documents. Payments for all other invisibles are not controlled and are effec ted through the f ree market, Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange for the official market. Export licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and they are granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the off ic ial ra te; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guar- anty in this respect. Exports of goods in short supply domestically may be restricted. There is a list^ of strategic materials whose export to communist-dominated countries is prohibited. Exchange proceeds f rom exports, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate. However, under the Law on Free Exchange for Exports, exporters of certain articles benefit as follows: Exporters of bananas produced by Costa Rican enterprises, natural crude oil and oil products, livestock, meat, eggs, shrimps, manganese, leather articles, books and other printed matter, sweaters, and other products of minor importance may retain 65 per cent of their export exchange for sale in the free market, resulting in an effective rate of $ 6.27 per US$1; exporters of cacao, in the bean or manufac tured, may retain 99 per cent of their export exchange for sale in the f ree market, giving an effective rate of <j5 6.62 per US$1. Re-exports of foreign goods are subject to the regulations applying to exports; but if the goods have been imported at the free market rate, this rate will apply to their re-export. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles required to be surrendered at the official rate are insurance indemnities, where they arise from insurance the premiums on which were covered in the official market, receipts by the Government and public entities, and sales of exchange by foreign concessionnaires whose contracts require such sales in the official market. Receipts from other invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Residents may freely receive and effect transfers of capital without limitation at the free market rate. Residents may also sell exchange at the official rate, but outgoing transfers of capital through the official market require the approval of the Central Bank and are subject to the conditions and limitations governing that market. Exchange receipts from foreign capital registered with the Central Bank must be sur- rendered at the official rate. The granting of official market exchange for amortization of registered foreign capital is subject to exchange licensing by the Central Bank, which decides on the applications on a case-to-case basis and in the light of the availability of exchange for that purpose. Foreign enterprises that produce export goods and are considered advantageous to the economy may be granted the right by the Central Bank to remit at the official rate amortization, profits, and interest on investments they have brought into the country through the free market. However, such authorizations are limited to the amounts set for that purpose by the Central Bank in its foreign ex- change budget and are restricted by the fact that the total remittances of an enterprise may not exceed the total amount of its sales of foreign exchange during a specified period. Certain foreign-owned investments are dealt with individually under special contracts. There are no limitations on the receipt or payment of unregistered foreign capital through the free market. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (colones per t/jS. dollar) COSTA RICA Buying 5.60 (Official Rate) All exports except those at C 6.27 and C 6.62 rates. Certain invisibles. Regis- tered capital. 6.27 (35% at C 5.60 and 65% at Free Market Rate) Certain exports by special authorization from the Central Bank. 6.62 (1% at € 5.60 and 99% at Free Market Rate) Exports of cacao and cacao products. 6.63 (Free Market Rate) All other receipts. Changes during 1956 5.67 Selling (Official Rate) Essential imports. Government pay- ments. Students' expenses. Registered capital. 6.65 (Free Market Rate) All other payments. February 13. The "global compensation" arrangement with Italy was terminated. March 3. Exporters of cacao were permitted to sell 99 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrender- able at the official rate. March 18. Exporters of cacao products were permitted to sell 99 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being sur- renderable at the official rate. Exporters of products to kill amoebae were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. May 4. Exporters of boats were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. August 11. Exporters of leather articles and of manganese were per- mitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. August 18. Permission to exporters of butter and cheese to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market was withdrawn. August 25. Exporters of books and other printed matter were per- mitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA October 7. An amendment to the Law on International Payments became effective, under which foreign enterprises that produce export goods and are considered advantageous to the economy may be granted the right to remit at the official rate amounts for amortization of capi- tal, profits, and interest on investments they have brought into the country through the free market. October 16. Exporters of eggs were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrender- able at the official rate. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK * Exchange Rate System The par value is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The official rates are DKr 6.901 buying, DKr 6.914 selling, per US$1. Denmark participates with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Bel- gium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multi- lateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and fo rwa rd transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with banks in France), with other authorized banks in these countries in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Denmark participates with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in multilateral arrangements with Argentina. Danish kroner in the accounts of banks in Argentina are exchangeable into the cur- rency of any country participating in the scheme. Denmark operates a dollar export incentive scheme which takes the form of negotiation at a premium of special transferable import rights given to exporters to the dollar area when they surrender their dollar export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control The exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Den- mark, which is the central exchange control authority in Denmark. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., the banks and stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. 1 In view of the changes which took place on January 29, 1957 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the position as at that date. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Foreign direct investments in Denmark require permission from the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Shipping. Licenses for imports and exports, when they are required, are issued by the Directorate of Supply (an agency of the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Shipping), by the Ministry of Agriculture, or by the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, outgoing payments must be made in the currency related to the monetary area or country of the recipient or in Danish kroner by crediting a nonresident account held by an account holder of the monetary area or country concerned. However, payments to the dollar area 2 may be effected in any currency, and payments to non- dollar countries with which there are no payments agreements 3 may be made in EPU currencies. Payments to most countries are effected through the authorized exchange dealers, but payments to Bulgaria, Colombia, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia are channeled through the appropriate clearing account with the National Bank of Denmark. Receipts from abroad must, as a general rule, be obtained in the related foreign currency of, or in Danish kroner by debiting a non- resident account of an account holder o f, the monetary area or country concerned. However, U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and free Swiss francs may be received from any country, and EPU currencies may be received from any country outside the dollar area. Nonresident Accounts The accounts held in Danish kroner by nonresidents are divided into four different types —Krone Accounts I, II, III, and IV—designated by nationality according to the country of residence of the account holder. These various types of account are held for the following purposes: 1. Krone Accounts I may be used for settling current transactions between Denmark and the country where the account holder resides. 2 In the Danish regulations, the dollar area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba,-Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- duras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 3 Apart from payments agreements with Argentina and EPU countries, Denmark has concluded bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Finland, East -Germany, Hungary, Israel, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Spain, UJ3.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK They are permitted to be held primarily by banks domiciled in foreign countries. 2. Krone Accounts II may be used for making payments in Denmark for the settlement of current transactions with the country of the account holder. They are held mainly by commercial firms. New funds may be credited to these accounts only by transfers from Krone Accounts I belonging to banks with the same designation of nationality. 3. Krone Accounts III are established for insurance companies abroad for use in the settlement of insurance and reinsurance transactions between Denmark and the country where the insurance company is domiciled. 4. Krone Accounts IV comprise all other foreign Krone Accounts. They are generally used for the crediting of nonresidents' capital and income of a noncommercial nature in Denmark. Funds held in these accounts may be used freely for a wide range of payments in Denmark. Balances on Krone Accounts I, II, or III related to most countries may be transferred abroad at any time in the currency of the nationality of the account holder. Where transfers between these three types of account are allowed, they may usually be made only between accounts of the same designation of nationality. However, transfers between Krone Accounts I related to EPU countries participating in the multilateral arbitrage arrangement (see section on Exchange Rate System, above), transfers from Krone Accounts I to Krone Accounts III of different nationality and vice versa, and transfers between Krone Accounts III of different nationality, are permitted. Balances on Krone Accounts IV may be transferred abroad within the limits set for capital transfers; transfers between Krone Accounts IV of different nationality require permission, which is given according to fixed rules (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Most imports from OEEC countries, including their associated terri- tories, and from certain bilateral countries,4 and a wide range of imports from the dollar area (see footnote 2 ), are either free of import license or licenses are issued freely for them. Licenses are required for most imports from other countries. The import of most goods from 4 Argentina, Brazil, Finland, Israel, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK non-dollar countries is possible by purchasing a "title to import license" (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). There are three free lists for imports, as follows: 1. The "general free list" applies to imports originating in the dollar area or in EPU countries. Settlements may be made freely in accordance with the prescription of currency requirements. 2. The "regional free list" designates goods that may be purchased freely in the EPU area against settlement through EPU. 3. The "free issue of license list" designates imports for which the authorities are prepared to grant licenses without imposing restric- tions. This list is subdivided into the "general free issue of license list," which, like the list under 1, above, is applicable to imports from dollar or EPU countries, and the "regional free issue of license list," which, like the list under 2, above, is applicable only to im- ports from the EPU area. The "general free list" and the "regional free list" are also applied to imports from certain other countries (see footnote 4 ), on condition that settlements are effected in accordance with the relevant currency pre- scriptions : Import declarations, when certified by the customs authorities, serve as authorization to pay for the corresponding goods and the related shipping expenses. However, the authorized dealers may effect pay- ment before clearance of the goods if the importer submits a statement promising to present the import declaration later. Foreign exchange may be made available only by the National Bank or —insofar as payments agreements do not prevent them from effecting foreign ex- change transactions —by authorized exchange dealers. The form of cur- rency for such payments is prescribed. Payments for Invisibles The authorized exchange dealers are permitted to effect freely most payments for invisibles; only in a few cases is approval from the National Bank or from a special authority required. Transfers of up to DKr 500 for any noncommercial purpose are permitted freely. Foreign exchange for travel outside the dollar area is allocated freely, and an annual exchange allocation of US$100 per person is given for tourist travel to the dollar area. Travelers may take out freely DKr 500 in domestic banknotes and coins, any amount in foreign banknotes, and any amount in other Danish or foreign means of payment. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ma jor agricultural products and of a range of industrial products, and most exports to countries outside the OEEC and dollar areas, require export licenses; these are issued by the Directorate of Supply (an agency of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Ship- ping) , by the Ministry of Agriculture, or by the Ministry of Fisheries. Certain exports are subject to restrictive licensing to safeguard the fulfillment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to import- ing countries, to serve strategic purposes, to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of hard currency, and to secure the domestic supply of essential goods. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to Denmark unless the National Bank permits otherwise. If recipients show evidence to the Bank that they need foreign exchange to meet their own fu tu re commitments, or to maintain their business, or for necessary purposes abroad, the Bank may exempt them from the gen- eral obligation to surrender their exchange proceeds. Transferred foreign exchange must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within eight days after receipt. The type of currency to be received for exports is prescribed. Exporters of most goods delivered to countries listed as belonging to the dollar area (or to U.S. and Canadian military forces stationed outside the dollar area) and paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars (or in Danish kroner from a U.S. or Canadian Krone Account I) obtain, against surrender of their dollar receipts at the official rate of exchange, a "title to import license" for 7^ per cent (as from January 1, 1957) of their export proceeds. This "title to import license" grants the right to import, against payment at the official rate of exchange, otherwise restricted goods from OEEC countries and their associated territories, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, the Spanish Monetary Area, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. These import rights are transferable. In order to limit the market price of the import rights to 80 per cent of the face value of the import license, the Government makes the necessary "titles to import license" available to the market as loans at that price. These "titles" (called "L-titles to import license") are nonnegotiable and the importers are under obligation to settle the loans later by purchasing ordinary "titles" in the market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived from invisibles must be trans- ferred to Denmark unless the National Bank permits otherwise (see 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Transferred foreign exchange must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an author- ized foreign exchange dealer within eight days after receipt. Travelers may bring into Denmark DKr 500 in domestic banknotes and coins. Foreign banknotes and other Danish or foreign means of payment may be imported freely in any amount. Capital Foreign direct investments in Denmark require the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Shipping. Other capital trans- actions require approval by the National Bank, which has to some extent delegated the power to the authorized exchange dealers to make such payments. Anyone receiving from abroad a payment exceeding DKr 1,000 must submit a report concerning this receipt to an author- ized exchange dealer; if the authorized exchange dealer considers that the purpose of the payment is not of a current nature, settlement or payment may take place only after permission has been obtained from the exchange authorities. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad or in Denmark are considered on their indi- vidual merits. In handling such applications, the exchange authorities follow a liberal practice, taking into account that intended investments should effect a net increase in Danish earnings of foreign exchange or should promise other tangible advantages to the economy of the country. Present and former Danish nationals living abroad are permitted freely to transfer capital to Denmark and to invest capital held in Denmark in portfolio-securities payable exclusively in Danish kroner or —for present Danish nationals only—in real estate. Nonresident foreign nationals are permitted to transfer freely to Denmark capital for the utilization of subscription rights and for the making of small loans to relatives in Denmark. Nonresident foreigners are normally permitted to transfer capital to Denmark to buy Danish portfolio- securities only if they have close connections with Denmark (by family, business, or the like). Reinvestment in Danish bonds of proceeds from the sale or redemption of Danish securities is allowed freely. The repatriation of foreign capital invested directly in Danish com- merce or industry after January 1, 1950 is permitted freely. Capital of a noncommercial nature owned by residents of Norway, Sweden, and the Sterling Area (UNISCAN countries), and Finland is freely transferable; such capital owned by residents of other countries may be transferred in amounts of up to DKr 25,000 a year per person. If 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK the owner of the capital is a Danish national residing abroad (other than a Danish woman married to a foreigner) he (or she) must not have been a permanent resident of Denmark within the last three years. Most outward capital transfers must be channeled through Krone Accounts IV. In general, transfers of nonresident capital assets in Denmark are permitted between residents of the same country, be- tween residents of UNISCAN countries, and between residents of EPU countries other than UNISCAN countries. The export of nonresident-owned Danish and foreign securities is normally permitted. Changes during 1956 January 11. The "title to import license" scheme was extended to cover imports from Czechoslovakia and Rumania. January 12. Consequent upon the announcement that the Bank of Finland would quote fluctuating rates of exchange for the Danish krone and certain other EPU currencies, the National Bank of Denmark ceased to set a fixed rate for the Finnish markka. Trade with Finland would still normally be settled in Danish kroner. Danish exchange dealers were permitted to deal with Finnish banks in the currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement. March 26. The arrangement for the payment of advance deposits on certain textile imports originating in EPU countries was abolished. The goods concerned were put on the "regional free list" and the "gen- eral free list." April 23. The "title to import license" scheme was extended to cover imports from Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland, and a slightly wider range of goods. April 26. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage scheme was extended f rom three months to six months, except for transactions with French banks. May 28. Previous limits on the transfer abroad of license fees were removed. The repatriation of foreign capital invested directly in com- mercial and industrial undertakings in Denmark after January 1, 1950 was permitted freely. The annual quota of DKr 25,000 that may be transferred from Krone Accounts IV was extended to apply to all countries. The regulation preventing the transfer within three years of capital to Danish nationals residing abroad ceased to apply to Danish women married to foreigners. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK July 2. Arrangements for multilateral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom became effec- tive. Danish kroner in the accounts of Argentine banks became ex- changeable for the currency of any country participating in the scheme or could be transferred freely to krone accounts related to any of these countries. July 16. Rates of exchange for foreign notes and coins were freed so that they might follow international rates. Exchange dealers were per- mitted to buy and sell abroad foreign notes and coins (with the excep- tion of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, Norwegian kroner, and Swedish kronor) against other foreign notes and coins or against payment in EPU currencies. August 3. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements with Argentina (see July 2, above). The Italian lira was added to the cur- rencies that could be exchanged for Danish kroner in Argentine accounts. September 5. It was announced that, effective January 1, 1957, the amount of the "titles to import license" issued on dollar exports would be reduced from 10 per cent to 7^ per cent of the exchange earned. September 13. An agreement for the settlement of payments be- tween Denmark and East Germany was concluded between the central banks of the two countries. Note. On January 29, 1957, the following4changes became effec t ive: (1) A new Executive Order on exchange regulations was issued, as a result of which, among other things, the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Shipping took over from the National Bank the licensing of foreign direct investments in Denmark, excluding loans and credits. (2) Nonresident investors were permitted to utilize freely subscription rights to holdings of Danish securities and to reinvest the sales and redemption proceeds of Danish securities in Danish bonds. (3) Inward and outward loans between close relatives, up to DKr 25,000 per bor- rower per year, were allowed automatically provided the transfers pass through Krone Accounts IV. (4) The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants was raised from DKr 3,000 to DKr 3,500, the allowance for children being the same as for adults. (5) The limit for f ree import and export of Danish notes and coins by travelers was raised from DKr 300 to DKr 500. (6) Transfers of minor amounts were allowed freely up to DKr 500 for outgoing payments for current invisibles and DKr 1,000 for all incoming payments. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Ecuadoran Sucres 15.00 = US$1. This rate applies to most exports, essential and semiessential imports, government pay- ments, registered private and official capital, and certain other specified transactions. Multiple currency practices arise from the existence, along with the official market, of a free market that has two sectors: (1) a controlled sector for exchange transactions related to selected minor exports and nonessential and luxury imports and (2) an uncon- trolled sector for invisibles, unregistered capital, and for other non- essential and luxury imports. Other multiple rates result from the mixing arrangements for exchange proceeds from exports of chemical products, medicines, bananas, and rice. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The authorities of the Central Bank of Ecuador control and super- vise the transactions permitted to pass through the official market and the controlled sector of the free market. All transactions that do not qua l ify for these markets may enter the uncontrolled sector of the free market —conducted by exchange houses—where such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency In principle, exchange proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars, but bilateral agreements with Argentina, Chile, Colombia, France, Italy, and Spain require payment through special accounts, denominated in U.S. dollars, at the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments A prior import license is required for substantially all imports other than those representing foreign loans, those of certain foreign com- panies, and samples and gifts up to a value of US$40; but apart from prohibited imports, import licenses are issued freely. Imports are divided in two categories—essential and semiessential (List 1) and nonessential and luxury (List 2) —and goods not included in these two categories are prohibited. Nevertheless, the Monetary Board may authorize the import of goods not included in the two categories. The granting of an import license issued by the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank carries with it the right to purchase the 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR required foreign exchange—at the official market rate for imports on List 1 and at the controlled free market rate for specified imports on List 2. Foreign exchange to pay for other imports on List 2 may be purchased freely in the uncontrolled free market. Legally, the Central Bank must act on an application within three days, stating any advance deposits that must be paid before the license is issued. For imports of essential and semiessential goods (List 1), no advance deposits are required but the payment to the Central Bank of an ad valorem tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value is a prerequisite to the granting of the import license. For imports of nonessential and luxury goods (List 2 ), foreign exchange to cover the entire import value and local currency to cover 40 per cent1 of the customs duties must be deposited with the Central Bank prior to the issuance of the import license, along with an ad valorem tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The Bank issues the import license as soon as the importer has made any advance deposit required and has paid the consular fee applicable to the import. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles are made through the uncontrolled sector of the free market and are not subject to exchange control. Certain invisibles may be paid for at the official rate but require an exchange license from the Central Bank, which grants such licenses for the following items: contractual interest payments, repayment of loans, and other obligations abroad which are registered at the Central Bank; payments of dividends, profits, interest, and amortization on registered foreign investments, up to 12 per cent annually; indispensable pay- ments and remittances of the Government and official entities; and foreign exchange required by persons taking specialized courses abroad, provided that such persons register with the Central Bank and that the amounts do not exceed passenger fares, expenses of travel, tuition, and a maximum of US$100 per month for living expenses. The Central Bank grants exchange at the controlled free rate for expenses of cor- respondence courses and a few other invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports other than those of certain foreign companies require licenses, which are issued by the Central Bank, to ensure surrender of 1 In accordance with a Monetary Board Regulation of February 5, 1957, this percentage was reduced to 30 per cent for February 6 through February 28, 20 per cent for the month of March, and 10 per cent for the month of April, after which no deposit will be required. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR foreign exchange proceeds at the official rate or, where applicable, their sale in the controlled free market. Export licenses are issued after application has been made by the exporter and arrangements have been made either for the surrender to the Central Bank of freely convertible foreign exchange, or for settle- ment through a payments agreement account, or for the return of the exchange to Ecuador if it is eligible for sale in the controlled free market. The official rate applies to the proceeds of most exports; the proceeds of certain minor ones are sold to the Central Bank at the controlled free market rate. Exporters of bananas surrender exchange for fixed amounts per stem at the official rate and the controlled free market rate; the remainder may be sold at the uncontrolled free market rate or transferred abroad. A mixing arrangement also applies to exports of rice and of chemical products and medicines. (See1 Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from most invisibles are sold through the uncontrolled sector of the free market and are not subject to control by the exchange control authorities. Capital Receipts of foreign capital may enter at the official rate if they are for approved purposes and are registered with the Central Bank. Reg- istered capital and earnings of up to 12 per cent may be transferred at the official rate (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The Central Bank may refuse to register capital. Foreign capital for official investments, and that in the form of foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency to pay local salaries, taxes, and other charges, has to be surrendered at the official rate if the capital is to be registered: Unregistered capital is free to enter through the uncontrolled sector of the free market in unlimited quantities. Foreign nonmonetary capital entering in the form of machinery, tools, etc., is treated like foreign monetary capital and requires a license, except when it represents foreign official loans or the capital of certain foreign companies. Machinery, equipment, imple- ments, materials, and other similar items brought into the country as foreign investments and intended for the development of national production are exempt from taxes if the Ministry of the Treasury has so authorized. Their re-export is free and exempt from duties. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (sucres per U.S. dollar) 15.00 Buying (Official Rate) Most exports (f.o.b. value). Rice export proceeds over US$6.00 per quintal. Reg- istered foreign capital. Foreign official loans. Government receipts. 15.15 Selling (Official Rate) List 1 imports (c.i.f. value). Govern- ment payments. Interest, dividends, and amortization on registered foreign capital. Certain other invisibles. 15.27 2 Banana exports, except from Esmeraldas region, November-July, to other than European and Latin American markets. 15.33 2 Banana exports from Esmeraldas region, 15.68 2 Banana exports, except from Esmeraldas region, August-October, to other than European and Latin American markets. 15.77 2 Banana exports, except from Esmeraldas region, to European and Latin Ameri- can markets. 15.92 (60% at S/ 15 and 40% at Con- trolled Free Market Rate) Exports of chemical products and medi- cines. 17.303 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Rice export proceeds up to US$6.00 per quintal. Various minor and marginal exports. (Uncontrolled Free Market Rate) Most invisibles. Unregistered capital. 18.70 17.403 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Specified List 2 imports. A few in- visibles. 18.80 (Uncontrolled Free Market Rate) Other List 2 imports. Most invisibles. Unregistered capital. 2 Exporters of bananas, except from the Esmeraldas region, are obliged to sur- render to the Central Bank $1.50 per stem ($1.00 at S/ 15 and $0.50 at S/ 17.30) for exports to European and Latin American markets, and $1.70 per stem ($1.20 at S/ 15 and $0.50 at S/ 17.30 in August-October, and $1.50 at S/ 15 and $0.20 at S/ 17.30 in the remaining months of the year) for banana exports to other markets. For banana exports from the Esmeraldas region, the surrender requirement is $1.40 per stem ($1.20 at S/ 15 and $0.20 at S/ 17.30), regardless of the export market or period of the year. These effective rates do not take into account the remaining proceeds, which may be sold at the uncontrolled free market rate. 3 Effective March 13, 1957, Resolution No. 203 abolished the controlled free market rate and transactions previously made at that rate are now settled in the uncontrolled free market, with the exception of outstanding commitments. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Changes during 1956 March 15. A large number of goods (about 122 items of the customs tariff classification) were added to the list of prohibited imports, and imports of 9 other items were temporarily suspended. With a few minor exceptions, these goods had previously been on List 2. March 22. A number of imports were shifted from List 1 to List 2. April 25. The export of small banana stems to Europe was author- ized: of total banana exports to Europe, 10 per cent could be 8-hand stems and another 10 per cent could be 7-hand stems.4 The following exchange surrender requirements were established for exports of sub- standard banana stems (except those from the Esmeraldas region) to Europe: (1) for 8-hand stems, $1.25 per stem at S/ 15 and $0.575 at S/ 17.30; (2) for 7-hand stems, $0.75 at S/ 15 and $0.95 at S/ 17.30. For exports of substandard banana stems from the Esmeraldas region to Europe, the new requirements were as follows: (1) for 8-hand stems, $0.90 at S/ 15 and $0.50 at S/ 17.30; (2) for 7-hand stems, $0.60 at S/ 15 and $0.80 at S/ 17.30. April 27. It was announced that, until Ecuador's foreign exchange position improved, payments for imports could be made only after the merchandise had arrived in an Ecuadoran port. May 5. Import goods included in 86 items of the customs tariff classification were shifted f rom List 1 to List 2. Import goods in 6 tariff classifications were shifted from List 2 to List 1. May 5. The Central Bank announced that it would supply exchange at the controlled free market rate for only those imports in List 2 con- sidered by the exchange control authorities to be essential for domestic consumption and manufac tur ing activities; exchange for all other List 2 goods (about 158 items in the customs tariff classification) had to be obtained in the uncontrolled free market. It was also stated that the Central Bank would intervene, if necessary, to prevent speculative movements in the uncontrolled free market. May 11. The surrender requirements for exports of standard banana stems (9 or more hands per stem) to Europe were lowered as follows: for shipments from the Esmeraldas region, from $1.40 per stem ($1.20 at S/ 15 and $0.20 at S/ 17.30) to $1.10 per stem at S/ 15; for ship- ments from other ports, from $1.70 per stem ($1.50 at S/ 15 and $0.20 4 Under a Monetary Board Regulation of January 31, 1957, these percentages were reduced to 7. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR at S/ 17.30) to $1.50 at S/ 15. The remaining export proceeds could be negotiated at the uncontrolled free market rate. For shipments of sub- standard banana stems to Europe (limited to 20 per cent of total exports of bananas to Europe—see April 25, above), the surrender requirements were revised as follows: for shipments from 'the Esme- raldas region, $0.90 for 8-hand stems and $0.60 for 7-hand stems, at S/ 15; for shipments from other ports, $1.125 for 8-hand stems and $0.75 for 7-hand stems, at S/ 15. The remaining proceeds of substand- ard banana stems exported to Europe could be sold at the uncontrolled free market rate. June 12. Six import items of the customs tariff classification were shifted from List 1 to List 2. For three of these items, the exchange had to be obtained in the uncontrolled free market. June 30. A decree-law required exporters of fish and crustaceans to surrender to the Central Bank the net proceeds of their exports on the basis of verified export declarations or of minimum prices set by the Monetary Board in accordance with international prices. This re- moved a fixed surrender requirement of $100 per ton established by an emergency decree-law in February 1951. July 26. The Central Bank would no longer issue exchange at the official or the controlled free market rate for interest payments abroad exceeding 7 per cent per annum connected with imports, or for any interest payments on importers' delayed payments. July 31. Some 86 items of the customs tariff classification were shifted from the list of prohibited imports to List 2, subject to payment through the uncontrolled free market. August 1. Earlier regulations applying to the surrender of proceeds from banana exports were abolished, and new surrender requirements were established. Exporters were obliged to surrender to the Central Bank $1.50 per stem ($1.00 at S/ 15 and $0.50 at S/ 17.30) for banana exports to European and Latin American markets, and $1.70 per stem ($1.20 at S/ 15 and $0.50 at S/ 17.30 in the period August-October, and $1.50 at S/ 15 and $0.20 at S/ 17.30 in the remaining months of the year) for banana exports to other markets. For banana exports from the Esmeraldas region, the surrender requirement was set at $1.40 per stem ($1.20 at S/ 15 and $0.20 at S/ 17.30), regardless of the export market or period of the year. August 16. Minimum exchange surrender requirements of $300 per metric ton at S/ 15 for exports of shrimp and $100 per metric ton for exports of other shellfish and of fish were established. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR August 24. Imports from Belgium, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom were made subject to import surtaxes at the customs (or at post offices for parcel imports) of 20 per cent for goods in List 1 and 40 per cent for goods in List 2, in addition to the import duties, in view of Ecuador's unfavorable trade balance with those countries.5 September 13. Payments for imports could be effected against ship- ping documents presented to the Central Bank. For imports subject to the uncontrolled free market rate, payments could be made in advance at the importer's request, subject to prior exchange authorization. December 21. Taxes of 5 per cent and 10 per cent were established on List l a nd List 2 goods (c.i.f. value), respectively. Payment of these taxes to the Central Bank is a prerequisite to the granting of an import license; where no licenses are required, the taxes are paid to the customs or the post office prior to the delivery of the goods. The 10 per cent ad' valorem tax on List 2 goods (f.o.b. value) of July 14, 1955 was replaced by the new tax. December 27. The advance deposit requirements of 5 per cent and 15 per cent for List 1 imports were removed. 5 Effective January 3, 1957, this surtax was no longer applied to imports f rom Belgium. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Exchange Rate System The par value is Egyptian Pound 1 = US$2.87156. Commercial banks' rates as at December 31, 1956 were $2.8660 buying, $2.8375 selling, per LE 1. A tax of 10 per cent is charged in most cases on exchange allocated for travel, and on revenue remitted to Egyptian nationals residing permanently abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control in Egypt is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Finance and Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Opera- tions appointed by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The tech- nical work of exchange control is pe r fo rmed, under the supervision and the instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the National Bank of Egypt. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the manner and currency for making settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles depends on the country or monetary area involved, the type of transaction, and, in particular, the category of import concerned. Payments for imports are made as follows: (1) in Egyptian pounds to the credit of a non- resident account appropriate to the country of residence of the bene- ficiary, if the license has been issued in sterling and payment cannot be effected in that currency (this mode of payment is being discon- tinued, since new licenses are not being issued in s te r l ing ); (2) against dollars available in Egyptian accounts blocked in the United States, if the license has been issued in U.S. dollars; (3) in Egyptian pounds or in an agreement currency through accounts maintained in accordance with payments agreements,1 if the license has been issued for imports f rom agreement countries; and (4) in the currency of the country with 1 Countries with which Egypt has concluded payments agreements are Austria, Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union, Bulgaria, Ceylon, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, France, East Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT which the transaction is carried out, under special regulations or in accordance with a payments agreement, as specified in the individual license. Payments for Egyptian exports must be received as follows: (1) in Egyptian pounds or in an agreement currency through accounts main- tained in accordance with payments agreements, for exports to coun- tries with which Egypt has such agreements; (2) in U.S. dollars, for exports to the dollar a rea; (3) in Canadian dollars, for exports to Canada; (4) in the currency of the importing country or in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss f rancs, or a currency acceptable to the Central Exchange Control, for exports to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden; (5) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, f ree Swiss f rancs, or any currency acceptable to the Central Exchange Control, for exports to all other countries. Payments for exports to any country may also be received, subject to the authorization of the Central Exchange Control, in Egyptian pounds f rom nonresident accounts of the importing country. As a general rule, transit trade and re-exports must be settled on the basis that the same currency is paid and received. The Central Exchange Control can permit exceptions to the above regulations. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident account are described below. All transfers abroad to the debit of nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. 1. Ordinary (or so-called "Free") Nonresident Accounts. These accounts are named according to the country or monetary area in which the account holder is normally resident, but in the case of the United States, Canada, Switzerland, and Belgium, this applies only to nationals of these countries residing in their own country. 2. Special Nonresident Accounts. These accounts are established and operated in accordance with bilateral payments arrangements. 3. Blocked Accounts. These accounts are credited with any pay- ment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations and not creditable to Provisionally Blocked Accounts (see 4, be low). They may be debited (a) with amounts up to LE 1,000 per year for living expenses of the account holder in Egypt; (b) for investments in Egyptian Government loans and in inscribed or regis- tered shares in nominative form of companies established in Egypt (not redeemable in less than ten y e a r s ); and (c) for subscriptions to increases in capital of Egyptian companies in which the account holder 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT is already a shareholder. Income derived f rom such investments may be credited to an appropriate Ordinary ("Free") Nonresident Account. 4. Provisionally Blocked Accounts. T^hese accounts are opened for residents of Canada and the United States when funds due to them in respect of capital or revenue are temporarily not transferable because of a shortage of the corresponding currencies. Balances on these accounts may be used for the same purposes as those indicated above under Blocked Accounts, 3 (b) and 3 ( c ), and also for living expenses of the account holder in Egypt and allowances to his relatives in Egypt, for transfers in the form of monthly allowances in cases of justified need, and for transfers to other Provisionally Blocked Accounts related to the same monetary area. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require individual licenses, the issuance of which is dependent on the currency and method of settlement and the category of the goods. Global limits are set periodically for the import licenses which can be granted to private individuals requiring official exchange to pay for imports made during specified six months' or three months' periods. As a rule, licenses are issued fairly freely for imports of essential goods and raw materials, and on a more restrictive basis for semiessentials. Certain specified nonessential and luxury goods are prohibited. Import licenses may be obtained for individual commodities or for groups of commodities. Up to 65 per cent of the value of capital arriving in Egypt may be authorized in the form of imports of goods essential to the national economy, provided that the remaining 35 per cent is imported in the form of free currencies. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to effect payments for certain invisibles with- out prior exchange control approval; payments for other invisibles require prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Expenses for permitted travel, family maintenance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. There is a basic exchange allowance for travel of LE 75 per adult per year, with additional amounts for elderly persons. Exchange for travel and for remittances to Egyptian nationals abroad is subject to a 10 per cent tax; however, remittances of diplomats, students, certain officials, and others are exempt from this tax. Persons leaving 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Egypt may take with them no more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of LE 20 purchased with the approval of the Central Exchange Control, and foreign banknotes brought in and declared by transit travelers or tourists, may be taken out by the travelers concerned. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are allowed without restriction unless the commodity is required for the national economy, in which case the export may be prohibited or allowed only under quota. All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months2 f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds f rom exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreements. Exports under barter are subject to the issuance of barter licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the official exchange rate all proceeds in foreign currencies, within one month from the date of their collection abroad. Persons arriving in Egypt f rom abroad may bring in not more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside Egypt require individual licenses, which normally are not granted. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Nonresidents may freely purchase securities on Egyption stock exchanges against payment in acceptable foreign currencies or in Egyp- tian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of Blocked Accounts or Provisionally Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Proceeds f rom the sale of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to Blocked Accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents of the same monetary area are per- mitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue, •(2) income f rom securities quoted on an Egyptian stock exchange, held 2 Effective February 23, 1957, this period was reduced to three months. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT for account of customers resident abroad, if the payment is made to the country of residence of the owner of the securities, and (3) matured mortgages. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 per family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Blocked Account, except that capital transfers to Switzerland may exceed LE 5,000. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Blocked Account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 provide for preferential treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the Egyptian economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism. For the purposes of these laws, foreign capital is defined as (1) foreign capital transferred to Egypt through a bank duly author- ized by the Central Exchange Control; (2) industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment, raw materials required for the erection or enlargement of buildings, and means of transport, if they are imported for the purposes specified in the 1953 law; (3) legal rights, such as patents and trademarks, if they are the property of nonresidents; (4) all profits realized by a registered concern, if they are channeled to increase the original capital or are invested in another undertaking, subject to the approval of the committee set up under the 1953 law. Funds transferred to Egypt from abroad as a result of obligations undertaken in conformity with laws in fo rce shall not be regarded as foreign capital eligible to benefit from the privileges of the 1953 and 1954 laws. Profits realized from the investment of foreign capital as defined above may be transferred abroad in the original currency of the investment and at the rate of exchange in force at the time of the transfer. Registered foreign capital may be repatriated five years af ter entry, at an annual rate not exceeding one fifth of its registered value, in the original currency of the investment and at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of transfer. The owner of foreign capital may apply for the repatriation of his capital at any time a f ter one year from the date his capital came in, if practical difficulties, recognized by the special committee set up under the 1953 law, have prevented its investment. Authority for repatriation is granted within three months from the date of application. The profits and the proportion of the capital authorized for transfer may be deposited in a special 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT account with the National Bank and used to pay1 for goods the export of which is permitted. Changes during 1956 March 7. Rules were established for the issue of import licenses. The aggregate value of private imports for the first six months of 1956 was fixed at LE 70 million. A priority was established among commodities, involving a higher degree of restriction for less essential items. Imports of nonessential or luxury goods, such as cars, radios, refrigerators, washing machines, cooking stoves, and heaters, were prohibited. Licenses could be issued for groups of commodities upon the importer's request. April 2. The import tax of 7 per cent had to be paid entirely at the time of issue of the import permit. June 1. The prior approval of the Central Exchange Control was required for all t rans fe rs to the Sudan. June 9. It was decreed that holiday travel abroad would not be permitted except to other Arab states and for foreign nationals residing in Egypt and traveling to their country of nationality. July 1. A new trade and payments agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany came into effect, under which all payments were to be made through accounts in partly convertible deutsche mark maintained by authorized banks in Egypt with German foreign trade banks. July 2. Rules were established for the issue of import licenses for the third quarter of 1956. They were similar to those issued for the first semester of the year (see March 7, above ), but in addition they provided for the authorization of triangular trade transactions to help settle accounts with other countries. July 16. A protocol to the payments agreement of January 18, 1954 with Rumania was signed, which provided for larger Egyptian pound balances on the Ruman ian account. August 15. All import licenses in U.S. dollars or sterling issued by the Import Control Department were made subject to validation by the Central Exchange Control. August 29. All payments to and f rom India had to be made in Indian rupees through rupee "B" accounts held with banks in India in the names of Egyptian banks. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT September 12. Egyptian banks were authorized to retain for. their own requirements any amount of foreign exchange received from abroad. They must, however, make a book entry to the effect that the amounts received had been sold to and purchased from the National Bank of Egypt at the buying and selling rates declared by the National Bank for the day the entry is made. The difference between the two rates must be paid to the National Bank for account of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. September 19. It was established that payments for imports under import licenses issued in sterling should be made in this currency. If for any reason payment could not be made in sterling, the equivalent in Egyptian pounds would be credited to a nonresident account appro- priate to the country of residence of the beneficiary. Such accounts could be used for the settlement of Egyptian exports and other pay- ments due to residents of Egypt, with the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. September 23. A new payments agreements was concluded with Mainland China. All payments were to be made in agreement account sterling. September 26. The prior approval of the Central Exchange Control was required for all transfers abroad to the debit of nonresident accounts. September 27 i New rules were issued prescribing the currency to be accepted for incoming payments, as follows: from the dollar area, U.S. dollars; from Canada, Canadian dollars; from Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, the currencies of these countries, U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, or any other currency acceptable to the Central Exchange Control; f rom bilateral agreement countries, the currency provided for by the agreement; f rom all other countries, U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, or any other currency acceptable to the Central Exchange Control. Moreover, it was estab- lished that payments from any country could be received in Egyptian pounds from nonresident accounts of the country concerned, subject to the approval of the Central Exchange Control. It was also ruled that the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control was required for payments for imports in deutsche mark, Italian lire, Indian rupees, or Netherlands guilders, and for payments for invisibles in U.S. or Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Italian lire, or Indian rupees. October 7. Import licenses would be granted without restriction if no transfer of currency was involved, or if the goods to be imported 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT constituted a payment for sums due to individuals in Egypt which could be paid only in the form of imports. Fifty per cent of the proceeds of Egyptian manufactured goods exported against payment in foreign currencies could be utilized for one year for imports of the exporting factories' requirements. Authorization would also be given to import 65 per cent of the value of capital arriving in Egypt for investment purposes in the form of goods essential to the national economy, and the remaining 35 per cent in the form of free currencies; however, licenses for such imports would be issued only after the arrival in Egypt of the monetary part of the capital. October 23. A new trade and payments agreement with Syria came into effect, under which all payments were to be made in Egyptian pounds through an account held with the National Bank of Egypt in the name of the Central Bank of Syria. November 1. Proclamations 5 and 5b of 1956 concerning restrictions on dealings with British, French, and Australian subjects were issued, and transfers to these subjects were accordingly prohibited. December 9. Exports to the Sudan were made subject to exchange control. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.48 buying, Eth$2.53 selling, per US$1; the official selling rate represents a spread of more than 1 per cent from the par value. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be effected through the State Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are. subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a Depart- ment of the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments outside Ethiopia must be effected in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or, for countries outside the dollar area, in sterling. Foreign exchange from exports must be re- ceived in an appropriate currency, usually that of the country of final destination. The proceeds of coffee exports are subject to special regu- lations (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Imports and Import Payments There are no import licenses, but payments outside Ethiopia for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for all goods in the currency appropriate to the country of origin or in sterling. Application for an exchange license must be made prior to the arrival of the goods. Although the exchange license states that "method of payment must be letter of credit unless otherwise permitted," cash- against-documents, mail-transfer, and telegraphic-transfer payments are, for the most part, allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Exchange for education is granted within the reasonable limits of each case. Foreign employees under contract with the Ethiopian Government may remit currently a maximum of 35 per cent of their salaries. Remittances by other foreign employees or personnel for family maintenance are permitted on a graduated scale 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA rising to 25 per cent of income. Foreign companies may remit dividends of up to 25 per cent of their invested and reinvested capital in the currency of the original investment. Emigrants' allowances and trans- fers of legacies are permitted up.to Eth$70,000 or the equivalent in foreign currency. For larger sums, reference has to be made to the Foreign Exchange Advisory Committee; the policy of the Committee in such cases is to spread the total transfer over a period of years so that the amount transferred in any one year does not exceed Eth$70,000. Persons traveling abroad are granted foreign exchange in the cur- rency of the country of destination on a case-to-case basis; they may take with them a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must state the amount of foreign exchange he expects to receive. Minimum prices are established for all exports. The grant- ing of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the State Bank of Ethiopia and that export proceeds are received in appropriate exchange (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In due time, exporters must surrender at the official rate the promised minimum amount of foreign exchange. There are special regulations for the proceeds of coffee exports: exporters are required to surrender U.S. dollars for exports to the dollar area, or transferable sterling for exports to other countries, subject to the submission of documentary proof as to final destination; where this proof is not available, at least 50 per cent of the proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars and the re- mainder in sterling. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. All foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its subsequent use or re-export is subject to license. Capital All foreign exchange receipts in the form of capital must be sur- rendered. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises financed by foreign capital, including exemp- tion from taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad annually a portion of profits earned. All payments to countries abroad on account of capital are subject to individual exchange license. Foreign exchange is granted for repayment abroad of matured capital and for the obligations of temporary residents. O ther types of capital transfer are handled on a case-to-case basis. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took p lace d u r i ng 1956. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Finnish Markkas 230 — US$1. The official rates are Fmk 229 buying, Fmk 231 selling, per US$1. Official fixed buying and selling rates are applied to some currencies, but those in the Western European multilateral arbitrage scheme (except Italian lire)1 are dealt in at fluctuating rates maintained within margins approximately % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Authorized banks are permitted to effect arbitrage operations with one another and with their authorized correspondents abroad in a number of currencies. Finland operates basically a single rate structure with the maintenance of parity values and orderly cross rates. There are, however, multiple currency practices, since rates representing a premium of approxi- mately 42 per cent over the official rate apply to transactions involving exchange for travelers and to foreign exchange transactions through Travel Markka Accounts and Inland Markka Accounts. The buying rate for exchange from tourists as at December 31, 1956 was Fmk 325 per US$1. Also, there is a system of subsidization of certain exports, financed by fees levied on certain imports. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system. Foreign exchange can be purchased only from the Bank of Finland or authorized exchange dealers (commercial banks). The latter, and branch offices of the Bank of Finland, deal in travelers' exchange at other than official rates. The current administration of import licensing is handled by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Office, which is presided over by a Licensing Board composed of government officials; limits for import licensing are set by the Bank of Finland through periodic exchange allocations. The system of export sub- sidization is administered by a trade clearing agency (Ulkomaan- kaupan Clearingkunta), under the supervision of the Finnish authorities. Prescription of Currency In general, the prescription of currency requirements are designed to ensure that the methods of payment conform to the provisions of 1 The Austrian schilling was included as from February 4, 1957. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND existing payments agreements.2 Sterling is a key currency in Finnish trade with western countries, and Finland uses the facilities of the Transferable Account arrangements (see section on Nonresident Accounts in the survey on the United Kingdom). Nonresident Accounts A system of four types of nonresident account is operated under the control of the Bank of Finland. 1. Exchange Markka Accounts are, for exchange control purposes, equivalent to foreign exchange and may, as a rule, be freely transferred abroad to the country and in the currency of the account holder. 2. Inland Markka Accounts may be held only by foreign banks with the Bank of Finland or with authorized banks. These accounts, which are not transferable abroad, are credited with current payments whose transfer abroad at the official rate is not allowed and with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign exchange at the travel rate. The debiting of these accounts cannot substitute for payment in foreign exchange from abroad. Balances on Inland Markka Accounts may, without prior permission of the Bank of Finland, be used to purchase securities dealt in on the Finnish Stock Exchange. Certain other expenditures in Finland, including investments other than in securities, may, upon specific authorization which is granted liberally, be defrayed from Inland Markka Accounts, and transfers are allowed between nonresi- dents, irrespective of country or monetary area. Transfers between Travel Markka Accounts and Inland Markka Accounts held in the names of foreign banks are free. 3. Blocked Accounts are credited mainly with noncurrent payments. They are not transferable abroad, nor may they, without the consent of the Bank of Finland, be transferred between nonresidents. Certain expenditures in Finland may, however, be defrayed from Blocked Accounts, in particular, living and traveling expenses in Finland up to Fmk 100,000 monthly per account holder or closely related person or, if the account is held by a firm, per person employed by the firm (see section on Capital, below). The term "blocked" is applied to all 2 Finland has payments arrangements with Argentina, Belgium-Luxembourg, Brazil, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, East Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United King- dom (Sterling Area), Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND markka assets of nonresidents other than those on nonresident account described under 1, 2, and 4. 4. Travel Markka Accounts arise from transfers from the country of the account holder of foreign exchange converted into markkas at the preferential tourist rates of exchange, or from transfers from Inland Markka Accounts, and may be used for the sale abroad of Finnish exchange to travelers going to Finland and for certain other settle- ments related to tourism. Travel Markka Accounts are not trans- ferable abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license. Licenses are allocated to indi- vidual importers primarily on the basis of past imports, but to some extent the past record of importers with regard to the price and quality of imports is taken into account. As a condition for receiving an import license, the importer has to deposit with the Bank of Finland 10 per cent of the value specified in the license. The deposit is repaid without interest three months after it has been made. The principal exemptions from the deposit obligation are import licenses for less than Fmk 50,000 and those granted in respect of gifts. Exchange in the form prescribed in the license normally is granted without delay. For a limited range of manufactured goods, the alloca- tion of exchange is subject to payment to the agency Ulkomaankaupan Clearingkunta of a fee amounting to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the import. Payments for Invisibles Payments not connected with imports are subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland in each case, and all contracts involving payments to nonresidents must be submitted to the Bank for approval. If the Bank of Finland has approved a contract providing for transfers abroad, exchange is granted automatically for such payments. A special system establishes higher rates for travelers' exchange. A Finnish resident going abroad may, for each journey, purchase from commercial banks up to Fmk 25,000 3 in foreign exchange for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and up to Fmk 50,000 3 for each visit to other countries, at the tourist rates of exchange involving a premium 3 On January 21, 1957, these limits were reduced to Fmk 20,000 for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and Fmk 40,000 for each visit to other countries. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND of about 42 per cent over the official rates. In addition, he may take with him Fmk 10,000 in Finnish notes. The commercial banks acquire the foreign exchange for such sales by purchasing foreign exchange at the tourist rates from foreign travelers in Finland and from exchange transactions through Travel Markka Accounts. No amount larger than he has been allowed by the exchange regulations of his own country to take out of that country may be bought from a foreign traveler. For certain purposes, e.g., education and scholarships, the Bank of Finland may sell foreign exchange at the official rate. Transfers on account of income on capital owned by nonresidents are generally permitted for (1) interest due from bonds denominated in Finnish markkas, on the condition that the bonds have been un- interruptedly in the possession of a citizen of the same foreign country since September 1, 1939, or the bonds were acquired later against payment to Finland in foreign currency or through a clearing agree- ment and have since then been in such continuous possession; (2) divi- dends from shares of Finnish companies up to a maximum of 10 per cent (less taxes) of the nominal value of the shares, or up to a maxi- mum of 10 per cent of the purchase price of the shares if they were acquired after September 1, 1939 and if the purchase price was higher than the nominal value; if the nominal value of the shares has been increased after September 1, 1939, or if the owner in his capacity as a shareholder has obtained shares free of charge, the amount of dividend considered transferable will be no more than double the original nomi- nal value. If the total of dividends on all shares owned by one person does not exceed Fmk 10,000, the entire amount may be transferred abroad. Within these limits, the transfers are effected at the official rate. If interest from bonds or dividends from shares should exceed these limits, the amounts in excess may be transferred abroad at the tourist rate of exchange or credited to Inland Markka Accounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license, and all foreign exchange acquired through exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Through the licensing of exports and the control of the currency of payment, the authorities are able to assure that exports conform to Finnish trade agreements and that exchange surrender requirements are fulfilled. The authorized banks and ship- ping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Export firms are also permitted to keep a part of their export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange accounts at Finnish banks, and in exceptional 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND cases at foreign banks. The accounts may be used by the exporter for the payment of incidental expenses related to exports and for payments for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against pay- ment at the official rate. On application, subsidies of up to 20 per cent of export proceeds are granted by the licensing authorities on a case-by-case basis to exporters of certain products. These subsidies are paid by the agency Ulkomaan- kaupan Clearingkunta—upon evidence that the related export proceeds have been surrendered —out of funds derived from fees charged on cer- tain imports (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Nonresident travelers may bring in a maximum of Fmk 20,000 in Finnish bank- notes ; Finnish residents are limited to Fmk 10,000, as they are not per- mitted to purchase Finnish currency abroad. Capital Each outward transfer on account of nonresident capital is subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. As a rule, such transfers are not permitted, and due payments are credited to Inland Markka Accounts or to Blocked Accounts. Inheritances of Canadian and U.S. citizens may, however, be transferred abroad to a "reasonable extent." All nonresident-owned investments and property in Finland, income thereon, and proceeds from their sale are, as a rule, considered as blocked assets. Such proceeds and other blocked assets may be credited to a Blocked Account. Interest and dividends may also be credited to a Blocked Account when the beneficiary does not wish payment to be credited to an Inland Markka Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be used (1) to pay the traveling and living expenses in Finland of an account holder and his family up to Fmk 100,000 monthly per person or, if the holder is a firm, per person employed by the firm; (2) to buy the account holder's ticket for his return home; (3) to meet expenses related to the administration of property and assets of the account holder; (4) to effect investments in securities quoted on the Finnish Stock Exchange (but only out of balances accrued from earnings, amortization of loans or bonds, or from the sale of property with a view to reinvestment). 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Persons residing in Finland are required to declare and surrender their foreign securities, investments, and proceeds accruing from prop- erty owned abroad. The obligation to surrender is, however, not applic- able to (1) assets owned by foreigners prior to June 22,1941; (2) assets owned by foreigners at the time of taking up residence in Finland after that date; (3) inheritances and wills or the yield on all such assets received by foreigners after June 22,1941. Outward transfers of capital by residents are subject to individual approval, which is seldom granted. The import and export of securities and any transactions in securities involving nonresident interests require approval. Changes during 1956 March 28. A new payments agreement was concluded between Fin- land and France which provided for partial transferability of exchange proceeds earned by Finland in its trade with France. April 4. Finnish authorized banks were permitted to effect arbitrage transactions with their authorized correspondents abroad in certain EPU currencies. April 5. The deposit required on imports (with certain exceptions) was raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent; however, the maximum period for repayment of the deposit was reduced from 12 months to 6 months. July 1. The deposit required on imports was reduced to 10 per cent and the repayment period was lowered to three months. December 14. It was announced that, for the period December 14, 1956-March 31, 1957, the so-called "automatic licensing" of listed import commodities would be cut by 20 per cent of the average licensing in the period December 1, 1955-November 30, 1956. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange Rate System Since January 1948, France has not maintained an agreed par value In terms of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exchange rates in France are stable and of an essentially unitary character, with orderly cross rates. The rate for the U.S. dollar has remained at, or very close to, F 350 per US$1 since September 1949. Exchange rates for 4 currencies—the Canadian dollar, the Djibouti franc, the Mexican peso, and the U.S. dollar —are formed through the interplay of authorized demand and supply and the intervention of the exchange authorities in the market. Mexican pesos, U.S. dollars, and Canadian dollars may, when needed for authorized payments, be acquired by the authorized banks through arbitrage transactions between the three currencies. Exchange rates for 14 other currencies fluctuate according to authorized demand and supply, between limits approximately % of 1 per cent on either side of the parities based on F 350 per US$1. In respect of 10 1 of these 14 currencies, authorized banks are free to conclude spot exchange arbitrage transactions with authorized banks in any of the countries concerned at or within the official limits, or forward exchange transactions for periods not exceed- ing three months, at rates determined by the interplay of demand and supply based on authorized transactions. Authorized banks may also conclude spot transactions in these 10 currencies against French francs in the Nonresident Accounts of the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Mainland China, China (Taiwan), Finland, Hungary (Special Accounts only), Japan (as from January 1, 1957), and Paraguay. The arbitrage arrangements are not in operation for the other 4 currencies.2 Rates for other currencies are notified to the authorized banks by the Bank of France either on the basis of the quotations in London and New York and the quotations of the dollar rate in France, or on the basis of the official quotations of the respective foreign central banks. These rates are published mainly in order to determine the equivalent in French francs of payments expressed in such currencies, since as a general rule settlements between France and countries whose currencies are not mentioned above are effected in French francs through appro- priate Nonresident Accounts. 1 The currencies of Austria (as from January 2, 1957), Belgium, Denmark, Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 2 The currencies of Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Portugal, and Yugoslavia. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Rates representing a deviation from the officially published rates derive from the sale of Capital Account francs by nonresident owners to other nonresidents of the same monetary area for investment or for tourist expenses in France (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be- low). The rate for the Capital Account f ranc as at December 31, 1956 was approximately F 369 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises Continental France (including Corsica), the Principality of Monaco, the Territory of the Saar, the French Overseas Departments (Algeria, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion), Morocco (South Zone), Tunisia, the French Overseas Territories (French West A f r ica, French Equatorial A f r ica, the Trust Territories of Cameroon and Togo, Madagascar and its dependencies, Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia and dependencies, the French Establishments in Oceania, and the Con- dominium of New Hebrides), and Cambodia, Laos, and Viet-Nam. Most payments agreements relate to settlements between the French Franc Area as a whole and the other country concerned. Restrictions between the various territories of the French Franc Area either are not applied or are applied only to minor parts of the Area, although such territories are formally independent exchange control units, each with its own local exchange control. The foreign exchange reserves of the French Franc Area are managed centrally; and the exchange rates of the local currencies of these territories are fixed in relation to the French franc. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance is granted extensive authority in the field of exchange control. The Exchange Office (Office des Changes) car- ries out French exchange control policy and issues import licenses in accordance with directions formulated by various governmental bodies. The Exchange Office is administered by an Administration Committee whose president is the Governor of the Bank of France, and by a Director designated by the Minister of Finance, and is subject to the control of a financial controller appointed by the Minister of Finance. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Finance on the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of France. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Prescription of Currency General exchange control regulations and, in specific cases, indi- vidual decisions of the Exchange Office prescribe the currency and form in which settlements between residents and nonresidents may be effected —usually in French francs to or from an appropriate nonresi- dent account and/or the currency of the country of residence of the foreign beneficiary or debtor. For international payments subject to bilateral trade and payments agreements,3 the provisions of the agree- ments determine the prescriptions of currency. In all other cases, the payments in the French Franc Area from a resident of the country of the account holder, including payments for exports to that country. Nonresident Accounts The ma in types of nonresident account in French f r an cs are described below. 1. Free Franc Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the f ranc proceeds f rom sales of currencies considered as convertible, namely, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Mexican pesos, and U.S. dollars; with transfers from other Free Franc Accounts; and with pay- ments authorized for credit to such accounts. Balances on Free Franc Accounts may be freely utilized to purchase any foreign currency nego- tiated in the Paris exchange market, including convertible currencies. They may be debited for all payments in the French Franc Area or for transfers to any other nonresident f ranc account. Free Franc Accounts may be opened for residents of the dollar area 4 and the French Somali Coast. 2. Nonresident Accounts (designated geographically according to the country or monetary area in wh ich the account holder resides). These accounts are related to non-dollar countries. They are convert- ible into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder 3 Besides payments agreements with EPU countries, Argentina, Brazil, Main- land China, China (Taiwan), Finland, Japan, and Paraguay, France has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Chile, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Egypt, East Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Spain, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 4 The countries to which this applies are Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE if that currency is dealt in on the Paris exchange market.5 They may be credited freely with franc proceeds from the sale of convertible cur- rencies in the Paris exchange market, with transfers from Free Franc Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of a currency related to the same country as that of the account holder. Transfers between accounts related to the same country or monetary area are permitted freely. Balances on Nonresident Accounts related to EPU countries and to Argentina, Brazil, Mainland China, China (Ta iwan), Finland, Hun- gary (except for transfers related to goods under bilateral quotas), Japan (as from January 1,1957), and Paraguay are freely transferable with one another and may be interchanged freely with EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. Nonresident Accounts are available for payments in the French Franc Area from a resident of the country of the account holder, including payments for exports to that country. 3. Capital Accounts. These accounts are also designated geographi- cally according to the country of residence of the account holder. They are credited with the proceeds of capital transactions not available for direct remittance to the account holder. Transfers between Capital Accounts of the same nationality, between those related to dollar area countries, and between those related to EPU countries and their mone- tary areas, are permitted freely. Balances on these accounts may be utilized freely for such purposes as buying investments quoted on stock exchanges in France and French short-term securities, and for the per- sonal tourist expenses in France of the account holder, his family, or persons resident in the same country or monetary area as that of the account holder. Use of balances for the latter purpose is, however, limited to F 10,000 daily per person, with a maximum of F 500,000 for a month's stay of a family in France. In addition to the above-mentioned accounts, there are Tourist Accounts designed mainly for the deposit of French banknotes held by nonresidents, and Internal Accounts of Nonresidents mainly for persons staying temporarily in the French Franc Area or whose residence is not determined. Imports and Import Payments Certain liberalized imports from OEEC countries and their associ- ated territories may be imported without an individual import license 5 At present, this provision applies to balances on Nonresident Accounts related to the following countries or monetary areas: Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Nether- lands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzerland, and Yugoslavia. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE by means of an import certificate completed by the importer and stamped by an authorized bank to confirm that payment for the import will be made in accordance with the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Other imports are sub- ject to individual license. Licenses are granted freely for the following: (1) other liberalized imports from OEEC countries; 6 (2) goods liberalized within specified quotas (this group is of limited significance); (3) goods that are re- imported, subject to various limitations, and a list of goods that includes such items as commercial samples, items brought in for or by diplomats, and a few other goods; (4) goods imported under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low); and (5) specified equipment goods, raw materials, and semifinished products for export-producing industries. The last group includes only imports under the so-called "equipment and raw materials procedure," under which producers of specified export products or groups of prod- ucts may obtain from the Exchange Office, through the intermediary of their professional organizations, licenses for importing equipment and raw materials needed for production. The allocation of "import rights" under this scheme is limited to 5 per cent of the respective export values. Other imports subject to individual import license may be dis- tinguished in accordance with the degree of restrictiveness applied: Individual import licenses usually are granted for specified raw mate- rials or other goods needed for the production of goods to be exported (IMEX or EXIM procedure); imports from OEEC countries receive relatively liberal treatment, particularly as far as raw materials are concerned; imports from other countries with which France has con- cluded trade and payments arrangements are made in accordance with quota and other arrangements and with fluctuations in bilateral bal- ances; and dollar imports, in general, are characterized by a certain degree of restrictiveness. Licenses are issued automatically for purchases of coal and steel products from the other member countries of the European Community for Coal and Steel (Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands). The import licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office, con- stitute the authority for the authorized bank handling the transaction 6 Some of the freed commodities are, however, temporarily subject to a special compensatory tax on imports. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE to effect payment. The authorized banks also effect payments on import certificates related to transactions handled by them. Payments for Invisibles Control over payments in respect of many categories of invisibles is supervisory, to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties is remittable, subject to supervision. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the allocation of exchange for trave l ;7 however, there are special facilities for business travel, particularly for exporters who have been allowed to retain a percentage of their export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Foreign exchange is granted freely in reasonable amounts on an individual basis for travel abroad for education and health, and up to F 25,000 monthly per beneficiary for family maintenance abroad. Appropriate foreign exchange is granted for banking commissions, patents and royalties, and specified categories of taxes. Transfers to nonresidents of current earnings from film rentals and royalties are approved on a liberal basis; however, amounts due to U.S. film companies may be partly transferred to the United States and partly credited to special accounts, called comptes cinema and governed by special regulations. Transfers on account of membership fees, subscriptions, donations, and movements of emi- grants' funds are permitted up to specified limits. Foreign exchange is not granted to exporters and importers for insurance abroad of risks concerning persons, property, or liability in France, which may only be insured in France with French insurance companies or foreign com- panies authorized to conduct insurance business in France. Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living near French frontiers, may take with them out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, or CFP francs, up to the value of F 20,000. 7 Effective February 2, 1957, the basic exchange allowance for French tourists traveling abroad is granted for only one journey a year, instead of for two journeys a year, as previously. Effective February 18, 1957, a tax was introduced on the delivery of foreign exchange against French francs for travel abroad. The tax was fixed at F 500 on amounts not exceeding F 15,000, F 1,000 on amounts not exceeding F 35,000, and F 1,000 per F 35,000 or fractions thereof on amounts exceeding F 35,000. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are subject to individual license. Export proceeds must be collected within 90 days from the arrival of the goods at their destination and in the manner set forth in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The procedure is simplified for exports not exceeding F 200,000, with a few exceptions. Foreign ex- change proceeds must be surrendered within a month from the date of their receipt. The following percentages of export proceeds are, however, exempt from the surrender requirements: (a) 15 per cent of the proceeds of exports to any country, payable in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Mexican pesos, or francs from a Free Franc Account; (b) 10 per cent of the proceeds of exports paid for in any other manner; and (c) 6 per cent of the proceeds of exports on consignment. These retained percentages of export proceeds are kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which are separate for each foreign currency or, for export proceeds received in francs, separate according to the designation of the nonresident franc account debited for the payment. However, EFAC accounts related to EPU and some other countries are interchangeable among themselves and with EFAC accounts related to dollar countries. The retained proceeds must be used by the original exporter or supplier of the goods either for meeting incidental expenses of for certain imports, which are limited to raw materials, capital goods, and merchandise used directly by the im- porting firm. The Exchange Office may, on an individual basis, permit exporters to retain a percentage of export proceeds higher than those indicated above; such permits are granted particularly for exports that require considerable publicity expenses abroad. Authorized banks with which EFAC accounts are held have, at the end of quarterly periods, to surrender 10 per cent of unutilized balances, except for certain mini- mum balances. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect, and to surrender within a month from the date of receipt, amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services. When foreign securities are kept abroad in an account in the name of the owner, he is not obliged to surrender the annual income if it does not exceed F 10,000. Hotels and similar establishments deal- ing with foreign tourists are permitted to retain a percentage of their exchange proceeds under conditions similar to those applicable to exporters, i.e., they may maintain EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living near French frontiers, may bring in any amount of banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, or CFP francs. Capital Most outward transfers of capital require approval. Capital assets abroad belonging to or acquired by residents are not subject to repatri- ation or surrender, and their holders are permitted to reinvest them either in quoted securities in accordance with a general authorization or in other investments under individual permit. New investments in France or in the French Franc Area by nonresi- dents can be given an unconditional guarantee of repatriation. Non- residents who, since September 1,1949, have made specified investments in the French Franc Area financed through the sale of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or free Swiss francs, or through the utilization of balances on a nonresident Free Franc Account, are granted the right to transfer at any time, in the currency in which the investment was made, the proceeds from the sale of these investments, including any possible capital gains. This facility can also, under a special authorization of the -Exchange Office, be accorded to new foreign investments effected by residents of EPU countries through the sale of the currency of, or through French francs in a nonresident account related to, the country of residence. However, this repatriation guarantee applies only to investments that are effected according to the general regulations of the Exchange Office, i.e.: (a) without prior authorization of the Ex- change Office if the investment is made by purchasing stocks quoted on any stock exchange in France, by purchasing real estate through a notary public, or by making a loan denominated in French francs of a maximum value of F 10 million; (b) with the authorization of the Ex- change Office for any other investment, especially in unquoted stocks or in a business or by making loans for amounts exceeding F 10 million. Other investments by nonresidents, namely, those made before Sep- tember 1, 1949 or since then without being entitled to the facility mentioned above, do not (except for contractual amortization) benefit from this repatriation guarantee, and the proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Immovable property and French securities in France belonging to nonresidents may be trans- ferred between residents of the same country; foreign securities held in France may be transferred between nonresidents of various countries. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Banknotes Banknotes in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars may be purchased by the authorized banks, without any limitation on the amount, at the rates of the market prior to the day of transaction. Banknotes in Italian lire may be purchased by authorized banks on the basis of the market rate. In both these cases, an authorized bank holding an amount of banknotes higher than that needed for its transactions may sell the notes to other authorized banks or to the Bank of France. Other foreign banknotes may be purchased by authorized banks from their customers at any rate and sold to other authorized banks. Authorized banks may sell banknotes to residents traveling abroad, under conditions established by an open or individual license of the Exchange Office, up to the maximum amounts that other foreign ex- change control authorities permit nonresident travelers to import. These sales take place at rates determined as indicated above. Changes during 1956 January 1. Quantitative restrictions were formally removed on im- ports of some 230 commodities from the United States and Canada, representing about 11 per cent of French private imports from those countries in 1953. January 3. Quantitative restrictions were removed on imports of various goods from OEEC countries, raising the percentage of liberal- ized imports from that area from 77.5 to 79, on the basis of 1948 private imports. The special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports (15 per cent or, in some cases, 10 per cent) was applied to nearly all these goods. January 4. The simplified import procedures applicable to liberal- ized goods from OEEC countries were applied also to liberalized imports of those goods from other countries. January 20. The bilateral payments agreement with Bolivia was terminated. January 21. The balances on Free Franc Accounts of nonresidents could be utilized freely for purchasing any foreign currencies negoti- ated in the Paris exchange market. Balances on Nonresident Accounts of residents of EPU countries and of Argentina (excluding Special Argentine Accounts) could be freely sold or replenished against EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. Residents of EPU countries 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE and of Argentina could, through their Nonresident Accounts, freely arbitrage one EPU currency against any other and sell U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and Mexican pesos against EPU currencies. February 14. Bolivia was included in the list of dollar area countries, and Bolivian residents were granted the facility of maintaining Free Franc Accounts. February 15. Nonresident Accounts in French francs related to Hun- gary were arranged in two categories: (1) Foreign Hungarian Accounts, which were to be used for settlements between the French Franc Area and Hungary with respect to the exchange of goods in special quota lists and for approved noncommercial payments, and could be credited freely with funds from Special Hungarian Accounts but could be debited for transfers to Special Hungarian Accounts only under exchange license; and (2) Special Hungarian Accounts, for settling transactions in other goods. These accounts could be interchanged freely with balances on Nonresident Accounts related to EPU coun- tries or to Argentina (excluding Special Argentine Accounts), and with EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. February 25. Provision was made for the opening of Nonresident Accounts in French francs for banks and other authorized bodies in Mainland China. These accounts could be interchanged freely with balances on Nonresident Accounts related to EPU countries, Argen- tina (excluding Special Argentine Accounts), or Hungary (excluding Foreign Hungarian Accoun ts), and with EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. April 6. Quantitative restrictions were removed on imports of vari- ous goods from OEEC countries, raising the liberalization percentage for imports from that area from 79 to 82.3. The special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports (15 per cent or, in some cases, 10 per cent) was applied to nearly all these goods. April 18. Provision was made for making Nonresident Accounts in French francs of residents of Finland freely interchangeable with bal- ances on Nonresident Accounts related to EPU countries, Argentina (excluding Special Argentine Accounts), Hungary (excluding Foreign Hungarian Accounts), or Mainland China, or with EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. April 19. Authorized banks were delegated authority to effect freely, without reference to the Exchange Office, current nontrade payments abroad, with a few exceptions, up to the equivalent of F 5,000. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE May 5. The bilateral payments agreement with China (Taiwan) was terminated. May 13. The import certificate procedure was made applicable to all imports on which quantitative restrictions had been lifted by the regulations of January 3 and April 6, 1956, with the exception of about 75 tariff items for which import licenses would continue to be required but would be automatically granted. May 26. The special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports was removed or reduced for some 200 items. June 19. It was announced that, in accordance with an agreement with Czechoslovakia signed on June 6, 1956, 7 per cent of payments for French imports from Czechoslovakia were to be paid to a centralized account at the Bank of France, to meet French financial claims on Czechoslovakia. July 1. In accordance with an agreement with Poland, the propor- tion of payments for French imports from Poland to be paid to a special account at the Bank of France for indemnifying French holders of prewar bonds was increased from 4 per cent to 5 per cent. July 1. A payments agreement with Pakistan of April 1953, which had established for Pakistan special French f r anc accounts for proceeds of cotton exports and of other specified transactions between France and Pakistan, was terminated. All payments between the two countries were to be settled in accordance with the usual arrangements governing settlements between France and the Sterling Area. July 2. Arrangements came into effect for multilateral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom (the "Paris Club"). French francs in the accounts of banks in Argentina became exchangeable for any EPU currency quoted in the Paris exchange market or could be transferred freely to French franc accounts related to EPU countries and other countries to which trans- ferable French franc facilities were extended. Trade settlements with Argentina could be made in EPU currencies or through the trans- ferable French franc accounts. Import licenses for Argentine goods were valid for purchases of such goods either directly or through the other European participants in the arrangements. July 10. Provision was made for the opening of Nonresident Accounts in French francs for residents of China (Taiwan). These accounts could be interchanged freely with balances on Nonresident Accounts related to EPU countries, and the countries to which transferable French 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE franc facilities were extended (Argentina, Mainland China, Finland, and Hungary), or with EPU currencies in the Paris exchange market. July 29. The prior authorization of the Exchange Office was required for all operations on Egyptian accounts. August 23. Several commodities were added to the OEEC liberaliza- tion list. A few of these items were made subject to the special, tempo- rary, compensatory tax on imports; this tax was removed from a few import commodities to which it had previously been applied. August 29. France became associated with the multilateral arrange- ments between Brazil and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom (the "Hague Club"). Imports from Brazil could be authorized either directly or through the other participants in these arrangements. France extended to Brazil the transferable French f ranc facilities made available to several other countries. Exports to Brazil could be paid for with balances on any transferable French franc account or with EPU currencies. September 17. Foreign exchange would, in general, no longer be granted to French residents holding foreign securities to enable them to subscribe to new stock issues related to these holdings. September 19. France extended to Paraguay the transferable French franc facilities made available to several other countries. November 2. Provisions were made for arbitrage among EFAC accounts related to countries for which France has established trans- ferable French franc facilities, and between those accounts and EFAC accounts in EPU currencies or related to EPU countries. December 19. It was announced that, as from January 1, 1957, in accordance with an agreement with Rumania, the proportion of pay- ments for French imports from Rumania to be paid to a special account at the Bank of France for repaying Rumanian debts to France would be increased from 7 per cent to 8 per cent. December 27. It was announced that, as from January 2, 1957, Austrian schillings and authorized Austrian banks were to be included, for spot transactions and forward transactions for up, to three months, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement in operation among most Western European countries. December 29. It was announced that France would extend to Japan, as from January 1, 1957, the transferable French franc facilities made available to several other countries. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC * Exchange Rate System The par value is Deutsche Mark 4.20 = US$1. Official market rates are ihaintained within the limits of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Exchange transactions are effected at uniform rates based on the par value. Banks in Germany may carry out spot exchange transactions (within official rate limits) and forward exchange transactions (1) in Austrian schillings (since January 2, 1957), Belgian francs, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and deutsche mark on a bilateral or a multilateral basis with authorized banks in any of the countries of these currencies; (2) in free Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and Canadian dollars with banks in the United States and Canada and with authorized banks in EPU countries; and (3) in other specified cur- rencies (Portuguese escudos, Irish pounds, and South African pounds) against deutsche mark with banks in the country of the currency con- cerned. Banks in Germany may also carry out spot and forward transactions with one another and with their customers in all of the currencies mentioned above, against deutsche mark or any of these currencies. Administration of Control The administration of controls in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur die gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Foreign Trade Agency for Food and Agriculture (Aussenhandelsstelle fur Erndhrung und Landwirtschaft), and the Land Ministries of Economics. For capital transactions, the Bank deutscher Lander is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control. All banks in Germany are permitted to effect foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency In the German prescription of currency regulations, the following countries are in an "area of freely convertible currencies": Bolivia, 1 The trade and exchange control regulations established by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany are, for the most part, applied also hi the British, French, and U.S. Sectors of Berlin. The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Philippine Republic, the United States and possessions, and Venezuela. Incoming payments f rom these coun- tries may be received in freely convertible currencies, in deutsche mark debited to Freely Convertible DM Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), or, for claims not exceeding DM 100, in German banknotes and coins. Payments due to these countries may be made in any currency or means of payment (except foreign notes and coins), or they may be made in deutsche mark to the credit of Freely or Partly Convertible DM Accounts or to persons in Germany. To all countries outside the area of freely convertible currencies, the following general prescription of currency regulations apply: incoming payments may be received in any means of payment; amounts due to these countries may be paid in inconvertible currencies (but not in notes or coins), or they may be paid in deutsche mark to the credit of Partly Convertible DM Accounts or to persons in Germany. How- ever, many of these countries are included in a broad group, the "area of partly convertible currencies," to which apply special methods of payment in accordance with bilateral or multilateral payments arrangements. This group comprises (1) EPU countries, settlements with most of which can be made on a multilateral basis; (2) bilateral clearing countries (Argentina and Czechoslovakia),2 to which pay- ments for goods purchased or produced there or transfers for the purpose of investment may be effected only through the appropriate clearing account; and (3) other countries (Bulgaria, Brazil, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, Iran, Japan, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia), with which settlements according to the payments arrangements are usually effected through Partly Convert- ible DM Accounts. • Debts due from one country may be offset by claims against any other country, provided that payments due from persons in the area of freely convertible currencies are not offset against payments due to persons in countries outside that area. Nonresident Accounts There are four main categories of nonresident DM accounts, as described below. 1. Freely Convertible DM Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to freely convertible currencies. They may be credited 2 Effective April 1, 1957, Czechoslovakia was transferred to the third subgroup. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC (a) with amounts which otherwise may be transferred abroad in freely convertible currencies; (b) with sums arising from specified exchange operations, such as transfers from abroad in freely convertible cur- rencies and purchases from nonresidents of banknotes and other means of payment in freely convertible currencies; and (c) with redeposits by nonresidents of deutsche mark previously withdrawn from such accounts and not spent. Balances on these accounts may be remitted abroad, transferred to other nonresident accounts in Categories 1 and 2, paid to residents for all current transactions, or exchanged for any other currency. 2. Partly Convertible DM Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies with partial convertibility. They may be credited (a) with amounts which otherwise may be transferred abroad (except payments for imports from, or for investments in, Argentina and Tu rkey ); (b) with sums arising from specified exchange operations, such as transfers from abroad (except if coverage is provided through a clearing account under a payments agreement with Argentina or Turkey), and purchases from nonresidents of foreign banknotes and other means of payment; (c) with German banknotes and coins paid in by nonresidents; and (d) with transfers from accounts in Cate- gories 1, 3, and 4. Transfers between Partly Convertible DM Accounts are entirely free. Balances on Partly Convertible DM Accounts may be used for payments in Germany (unless such payments have to be received in a freely convertible currency), including purchases from banks in Germany of banknotes and other means of payment in incon- vertible currencies. They may also be used for transfers to any country outside the area of freely convertible currencies, including transfers to Accounts Related to Payments Agreements. 3. Accounts Related to Payments Agreements (Bilateral Agreement Accounts). These accounts are in the names of authorized banks and are used for carrying out the terms of payments agreements with EPU countries (except Turkey). Transfers between these accounts, and also between these accounts and accounts in Category 2, may be made freely. So f ar as their use and transferability are concerned, there is no difference between these accounts and Partly Convertible DM Accounts. 4. Liberalized Capital Accounts. These accounts are maintained for the capital transactions of nonresidents. Some of the chief sources of these accounts are proceeds from the sale of real property in Germany by foreign owners, the sale of German securities held by nonresidents, and restitution or compensation due to nonresidents for confiscation or war damage. Certain foreign debts may be repaid in deutsche mark by crediting these accounts. Transfers of Liberalized Capital Accounts 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC from one nonresident to another are permitted freely, regardless of the account holders7 countries of residence. Balances on these accounts may be transferred abroad in accordance with the provisions of bilateral agreements, credited to Partly Convertible DM Accounts, or used to pay for practically all transactions in invisibles and for specified investments in Germany. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports of industrial goods and raw materials and most imports of foods tuffs from OEEC countries and their dependent territories are liberalized, as are most imports from the remainder of the EPU area, the dollar area, Brazil, Finland, Japan, Spain, and Uruguay. In addition, many goods are in effect liberalized by being within the limits of "open public tenders," which in each case apply to a certain country. Goods free from quantitative restriction are not subject to license either for import or for payment and no. prior control is exercised over such goods, but an ex post control is carried out by the federal authorities; however, an import declaration stamped by a Land Central Bank is required, which serves as documentation for customs control and payment. For imports still subject to quantitative limitation, an individual license is required, which covers the import transaction as well as the payment. Dealings in commodity futures may be made freely. With a few exceptions that are subject to indi- vidual license, transit trade transactions may also be made freely, the only requirement being that of an ex post declaration, for purposes of control. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles, particularly those connected with or related to foreign trade, are almost entirely free of individual license, but are subject to certain controls. Residents are permitted to make payments to any country up to DM 200 per quarter for any purpose other than on account of import or capital transactions. Earnings from nonresident investments in Germany may, without special permission, be transferred abroad, or credited to a Liberalized Capital Account or —according to the owner's country of residence—to a Freely or Partly Convertible DM Account. Transfers of indemnities paid on the basis of the Federal Law on the Compensation for Victims of the National Socialistic Persecution, of June 29, 1956, may be effected freely. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC Special arrangements are applicable to transfers of interest and amortization on account of specified German external debts, in accord- ance with the London Debt Agreement, signed February 27, 1953 and effective September 16, 1953 (see Fifth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, pages 153-54). Travelers are permitted to take out at each crossing of the frontier any amount in German or foreign notes or coins for travel. However, German banks are permitted to sell or transfer abroad to German travelers means of payment in freely convertible currencies for travel only when an entry visa (or equivalent proof) is furnished showing that the country of travel is in the area of freely convertible currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters may freely conclude export contracts with foreign im- porters, carry through the export of commodities, and accept payments in an appropriate currency. For goods up to a value of DM 1,000, only an export (small consignment) notification, serving statistical pur- poses, is required. All other exports require export declarations, and certain commodities—mostly strategic goods—are subject to individual license. Licenses are not required for exports free of payment, if the value of the export does not exceed DM 1,000, or for many such exports valued at more than DM 1,000; however, for exports free of payment which are not covered by a general license, a "certificate of nonobjec- tion" is required. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered. However, amounts over DM 5,000 that have been over- due for more than three months must be reported to the authorities. The exporter is responsible for obtaining the export proceeds, which must be received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exporters are permitted to use their export proceeds to pay the customary commissions to their agents abroad and for payments in settlement of claims arising from defects or to cover such usual discounts or other reductions in price as may have been agreed upon subsequently. Residents are permitted to finance their exports for periods of up to 180 days and to maintain foreign currency accounts with German and foreign banks, but these accounts may be used only for authorized payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. A special license is required for transactions relating to the sale of, or the grant- 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC ing of licenses for, inventions, patents, registered designs, trademarks, etc., as well as for technical assistance through the delivery of con- structional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture. Residents may either sell exchange obtained from invisibles to a bank in Germany, or they may hold the exchange indefinitely in a foreign currency account maintained with a bank in Germany or in a fore ign country and use it for authorized payments. German and foreign notes and coins may be brought or sent into Germany in unlimited amounts. Capital Foreign investments in specified fields in Germany may be effected freely through Liberalized Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above) and through subscriptions in kind. Investments in other ways are permitted under individual license. Applications for permission to make capital investments through the import of foreign exchange have to be made to the Land Central Banks, which submit them to an interministerial Federal Investment Commission. Outgoing transfers of nonresident capital are generally permitted under the London Debt Agreement, or under open or individual license. Financial institutions in Germany are permitted to receive from abroad any kind of security through the post and to send abroad through the post and to transfer to other German banks securities owned by nonresidents. Residents may buy and sell foreign securities and German bonds expressed in foreign currency, but such transactions, either abroad or in Germany, are permitted only through German financial institutions acting as intermediaries. For the purchase of securities abroad, set- tlement may be made in practically any means of payment allowed under the German prescription of currency regulations, subject to certain conditions. German residents who are prevented by the exchange control regula- tions in other countries from repatriating their assets held abroad are given permission to sell them to residents authorized to make invest- ments abroad, the parties concerned being permitted to agree among themselves as to the amount of compensation. Enterprises that have their head offices in Germany or that are domiciled there are permitted, without a special permit, to establish abroad branches or enterprises or to acquire a participation in other 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC foreign enterprises abroad, up to a total of DM 3 million for each enterprise. Changes during 1956 January 1. The list of goods free of import license when imported from OEEC countries was extended. January 1. In accordance with a payments agreement protocol signed with Ecuador on April 22, 1955, settlements between Germany and Ecuador were now to be made in U.S. dollars. February 1. In accordance with the German-Hungarian payments agreement signed on October 27, 1955, settlements between Germany and Hungary were now to be made in partly convertible deutsche mark, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. February 28. Authorized banks were permitted to extend 180-day credits to nonresidents in freely or partly convertible deutsche mark through nonagreement accounts, or in foreign currencies. April 10. In accordance with an agreement with Uruguay concluded on March 15, 1956, settlements between Germany and Uruguay were now to be made in partly convertible deutsche mark, thus enabling pay- ments to be made on a multilateral basis, and Uruguay was included in the group of "other countries" in the area of partly convertible currencies. April 27. An extensive list of free imports from Brazil, Chile, Fin- land, Japan, and Uruguay was issued. Brazilian products could also be brought in as liberalized imports by way of Austria, Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, or the United Kingdom. May 7. Residents could hold balances on foreign currency accounts with German banks without any time limit and not, as xpreviously, only for six months. A term of 180 days was uniformly allowed for overdrawing foreign currency accounts. Authorized banks were per- mitted to open and operate foreign currency accounts for residents, for authorized exchange transactions. Residents could buy and sell foreign securities negotiated on stock exchanges abroad, subject to the following conditions: (1) the transactions must be effected through German authorized banks; (2) the exchange regulations of the country in which the securities are issued must permit the transfer of earnings and conversion into deutsche mark of proceeds from the sale of the securities; (3) securities paid for in freely convertible currency must be sold against such currency; and (4) purchased securities must be 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC deposited with authorized banks in Germany. Interest payments, divi- dends, and foreign exchange obtained through the resale of foreign securities could be credited to a resident's foreign currency account with an authorized bank or converted directly into deutsche mark. Residents were also permitted to purchase freely foreign-owned real estate in Germany, payment being made in accordance with the capital control regulations. May 11. Nonauthorized banks in Germany could purchase foreign notes and coins and other means of payment used by travelers for their own account and sell them for travel purposes. Any surplus had to be passed to authorized banks for purchase or collection. May 25. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage scheme was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. June 1. As a result of the inclusion of Italy in the multilateral trade and payments arrangements with Brazil, authorized banks were per- mitted to deal spot with banks in Brazil in Italian lire against the cur- rencies of the other participants. June 6. Residents were permitted to buy abroad German bonds expressed in foreign currency on the same terms as those for foreign securities (see May 7, above). June 12. Travelers to Germany were permitted to bring in gold coins and to give or sell them to residents against deutsche mark, without a special license. June 19. The list of liberalized imports was extended, raising the percentage of liberalized dollar imports from 68 to 93 (on the basis of private imports in 1953). June 22. Residents could grant loans in deutsche mark, for periods not exceeding 180 days, to nonresidents staying temporarily in Ger- many. Such loans were to be repaid in accordance with the prescrip- tion of currency regulations. July 1. In accordance with the agreement concluded with Egypt on February 18, 1956, settlements between Germany and Egypt were now to be made through Partly Convertible DM Accounts, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis, and Egypt was included in the group of "other countries" in the area of partly convertible currencies. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC July 1. In accordance with a German-Bulgarian protocol, settle- ments between Bulgaria and Germany were now to be made in partly convertible deutsche mark, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis, and Bulgaria was included in the group of other countries in the area of partly convertible currencies. July 5, The use of credits abroad by German importers and exporters was liberalized. For the purpose of financing authorized import and transit transactions, importers and transit dealers could use credit abroad in connection with trade and invisibles for periods up to 180 days. July 12. A new list of liberalized goods that could be imported'with- out quantitative limitation from the Spanish Monetary Area came into force. (A considerable number of Spanish goods had actually been liberalized since the autumn of 1952.) August 3. Enterprises with head offices in Germany or domiciled there were in general authorized to make payments to their dependent establishments abroad to cover expenditures that are required in the ordinary business operations of those establishments and that cannot be covered out of their earnings. August 8. Payments for foreign securities or German external bonds bought in countries outside the free currency area could be made in freely convertible currencies or by crediting Freely Convertible DM Accounts; such securities or bonds could be sold only against freely convertible currencies or by debiting Freely Convertible DM Accounts. August 17. Transactions which hitherto had been reserved for author- ized banks could now be effected by all banks in Germany. August 23. As a result of the inclusion of France in the multilateral trade and payments arrangements with Brazil, authorized banks were permitted to deal spot with banks in Brazil in French francs against the currencies of the other participants. August 28. The list of liberalized dollar imports was extended and modified. September 17. Banks in Germany could purchase foreign securities from and sell them to German residents, provided that payments on account of such transactions were effected in deutsche mark and such securities were deposited with banks. September 26. Enterprises that have their head offices in Germany or that are domiciled there were permitted without an individual 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC license to establish abroad branches or enterprises or to acquire a par- ticipation in other enterprises for a total amount not exceeding DM 3 million. September 29. The obligation to declare and surrender export pro- ceeds was canceled; however, exporters were required to report export proceeds of over DM 5,000 that have been overdue for more than three months. October 1. All residents could import liberalized goods and not, as previously, only those merchants whose names were entered in the Trade Register. October 1. A payments agreement with Chile expired. Chile was included in the area of freely convertible currencies; however, all transactions concluded prior to the expiration of the agreement were to be settled in accordance with the provisions of the expired payments agreement. The list of liberalized dollar imports was made applicable to Chile. October 1. The banking arrangements governing settlements be- tween Germany and Rumania expired. The German-Iranian payments agreement of June 3, 1952 also expired. Therefore, settlements with both Rumania and Iran would be effected in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations applicable to countries outside the area of freely convertible currencies, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. October 1. The payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired. Settle- ments with Yugoslavia were now to be effected through Partly Con- vertible DM Accounts, thus enabling payments to be made on a multi- lateral basis, and Yugoslavia was included in the group of "other countries" in the area of partly convertible currencies. October 15. Travelers were permitted to carry every kind of German and foreign means of payment when entering or leaving Germany; however, German travelers may use such means of payment abroad only for travel (i.e., not for such purposes as capital investment or the accumulation of balances abroad). German travelers could purchase from German banks any amount of means of payment for travel and have such means of payment transferred abroad; however, banks could sell or transfer abroad to German travelers means of payment for travel in freely convertible currencies only in cases where proof is furnished that the German traveler is going to a country which is included in the free currency area or for which, under the German regulations, freely convertible currency may be made available. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC December 3. The list of liberalized imports f rom OEEC countries was further extended, bringing the liberalization percentage to almost 100 for industrial goods and raw materials. December 5. The conditions attached to the negotiation of foreign securities by residents were modified. The second condition described under May 7, above, was eliminated; and the sale of foreign securities against partly convertible currency required a special license, which is granted if the securities were purchased by residents with partly con- vertible currency. (See also August 8, above.) December 11. It was announced that, effective January 2, 1957, banks in Austria and Austrian schillings would be included in the West- ern European multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement. December 11. It was announced that, effective January 1, 1957, settlements with Poland would be made through Partly Convertible DM Accounts and Poland would be included in the group of "other countries" in the area of partly convertible currencies. December 18. The use of credits abroad for periods up to 180 days by German exporters was permitted. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System There is no established par value for the Greek Drachma. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. The rate of the drachma in relation to other currencies is determined by the Bank of Greece on the basis of the parity relationship of each of these currencies to the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, and a Currency Committee. Con- trols are implemented and applied by the Bank of Greece and author- ized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and manner provided for by trade and pay- ments agreements, or on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved. Under the terms of most of the trade and payments agreements,1 settlements are effected through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account, or in the currency of the partner country. Imports and Import Payments One of two general import procedures is applicable to private imports, depending on the method of payment: (1) No license is neces- sary, but the approval of an authorized bank is required, to import goods (except as mentioned under (2 ), below) from bilateral agree- ment countries * when payment is effected through the relevant clear- ing accounts; or from countries participating in EPU when payment is made in an EPU currency; or from Canada or the United States when payment is made in free dollars provided by the Greek exchange authorities. (2) An import approval issued by the main office of the Bank of Greece is required for imports from countries specified in Procurement Authorizations covering imports sponsored by the U.S. 1 Besides payments agreements with EPU countries, Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Poland, Rumania, Spain, UJ3.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE International Cooperation Administration ( ICA ); and for imports from any other country when the method of settlement differs from those mentioned under (1), above. Payment under either import procedure may be made by opening a documentary credit, by cash against shipping documents, or, for some specified goods, by the ac- ceptance of time drafts. Imports of specified luxury and a few other goods from any country are subject to special license and payment may be effected only by the opening of a documentary credit for a period not exceeding six months. Imports from Japan of four commodities are subject to the same procedure. For goods imported on the basis of cash against shipping documents, a Greek importer must deposit with his bank an amount in cash equal to 15, 50, or 100 per cent of the invoiced value, according to the com- modity to be imported; for certain commodities (mainly foodstuffs), no guarantee or advance deposit is required. Deposits and guarantees are partly or entirely forfeited if imports or payments for them are not effected as prescribed. For shipments against time drafts, a personal guarantee equivalent to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods to be imported is required. No cash deposit or bank guarantee is required on shipments payable by letter of credit. For commodities ultimately paid for with ICA funds, importers must, within ten days from the date of obtaining the import license, deposit cash or a bank guarantee covering 10 per cent of the value of the goods, in addition to any other downpay- ment required. After making arrangements for payment and upon delivery of the documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the clearance of the goods. In the event of the failure of the importer to fulfill the conditions prescribed for the import or payment of the goods, a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods is payable. Greek importers who do not place orders with the exchange control prior to the ship- ment of goods may be subject to a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, legal entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require individual licenses, but these are granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE specified categories of insurance (e.g., ships and airplanes, merchandise transportation, fire, accident, and life insurance) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Per- sons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 450 in Greek banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to individual license, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds have to be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Foreign exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay any taxes, fees, etc., and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece at the official rate. Individuals may bring in a maximum of Dr 450 in Greek banknotes. Capital All drachma assets of nonresidents have to be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, however, balances on such accounts may be utilized for such purposes as the purchase by a nonresident of real estate in Greece; the sale of such real estate is permitted, provided the sale proceeds are credited to a blocked account opened in the name of the nonresident seller. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687 of October 31, 1953, approved foreign investments in Greece which are expected to promote national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of the country can be granted preferential treatment, but such investments are not repayable earlier than one year from the date of importation or from the time the enterprise began to operate productively. When any enterprise organized with foreign capital is granted terms more favorable than those which had been accorded to a similar enterprise previously established with foreign capital, similarly favorable terms w i ll be extended to the previously established enterprise, at the request of the beneficiary. Special guarantees are provided in case of requisition. Approved foreign capital may be repatriated at an annual rate not exceeding 10 per cent. Transfers of dividends on equity capital may 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE not exceed 12 per cent per year, and those for payments of interest on loan capital may not exceed 10 per cent; however, annual earnings below these limits can be supplemented by earnings in excess of such limits from other years. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining prod- ucts or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investments may also be granted preferen- tial treatment in respect of the repayment of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Changes during 1956 January 30. The approval of an authorized bank (instead of the Bank of Greece) was now sufficient for imports from Canada and the United States and possessions when payment was made in free dollars provided by the Greek exchange authorities. March 3. A clearing agreement was signed with Chile covering Greek imports of nitrates. July 6. The bilateral payments agreement with Brazil ceased to be effective. Payments with Brazil could now be settled in U.S. dollars. September 24. Greek shipping companies transporting goods to Greece were allowed to collect advance freight payments abroad without any obligation to surrender the foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Formerly, they were required to collect freight charges in Greece and surrender 25 per cent of the foreign exchange. (This re- quirement had been in contrast to the practice with regard to non- Greek ships, which may collect freight charges in advance without any obligation to surrender the foreign exchange.) October 5. The advance deposit of 3 per cent for some essential imports when made against time drafts was no longer required. The period for time drafts acceptable against delivery of shipping docu- ments was extended from 3 months to 6 months from the date of issu- ance of the customs clearance certificate; this time limit could be extended up to 15 months for imports of machinery valued at over $5,000. For commodities ultimately paid for with ICA funds, importers were required to deposit a guarantee covering 10 per cent of the value of the goods imported, in addition to any other downpayments required. For imports from countries not participating in EPU, but payable in 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE an EPU currency, the import approval had now to be issued by the main office of the Bank of Greece, instead of by an authorized bank, as previously. October 24. The ban on exports of olive oil was relaxed and exports of up to 5,000 tons were authorized. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1, but there is a multiple exchange rate system comprising the official rates, the free market rates, and four mixed rates (see Table of JExchange Rates, below). The official rates are those of the authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rate in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the U.S. dollar proceeds of exports not of local origin (exceptionally, in the case of seven local commodities, a percentage of the proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate), and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to most other transactions. Exchange Control Territory The Colony of Hong Kong is a part of the Sterling Area —the Sched- uled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The exchange control system in Hong Kong is operated by 32 banks authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are not permitted to conclude exchange transactions at other than the official rates. Prescription of Currency All payments and receipts except those effected through the free market must be by the method and in the currency prescribed in the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations (see section on Pre- scription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). In addi- tion, payments and receipts may be in Hong Kong dollars through the account of a bank established in the other country concerned. Nonresident Accounts Credits to the accounts of banks situated outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan require licenses; payments from these accounts, including payments for exports 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG invoiced in Hong Kong dollars to the countries of the account holders, may be made to residents of Hong Kong. Credits to the accounts of persons and firms resident on the North American continent and in the Philippine Republic require licenses, but credits to the accounts of persons and firms in other countries do not require licenses. Payments between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories require licenses; however, authorized exchange banks may make or receive such pay- ments without license if the transaction is in respect of (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories, (2) divi- dends and interest payments, or (3) small bank charges. In addition, authorized exchange banks may pay Hong Kong residents for family remittances from residents of British North Borneo, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaya, Sarawak, Singapore, Thailand, and Viet- Nam, without the requirement of an individual license, but subject to a weekly report being made by the banks. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain strategic materials and for some other items f rom specified countries, imports are free of import license. Exchange licenses are required, even if the importer provides his own exchange, for imports from any country except other parts of the Sterling Area, North America, Cambodia, Mainland China, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Laos, the Philippine Republic, Taiwan, Thailand, and Viet- Nam. The exchange licenses are granted freely, provided payment is made in accordance with the regulations laid down in the United King- dom (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Foreign ex- change, except U.S. dollars, to pay for authorized imports may be obtained at the rate corresponding to the official rate. U.S. dollar exchange at this rate normally is authorized only for a few imports regarded as strictly essential; for other authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Payments for Invisibles To obtain exchange at the official rate, exchange licenses are required. These are granted to local residents for most transactions in invisibles on criteria similar to those applied in the United Kingdom; e.g., exchange at the official rate for travel, personal remittances, and similar purposes is limited. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for residents (for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling in certain countries is £100 per person per 12 months for the period commencing November 1, 1956. These facilities, which are cumulative for a period of 3 years, are also available for residents of the United 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Kingdom and the Colonies who have been staying in Hong Kong for not less than 3 years. If exchange at the official rate is not authorized, exchange licenses may be issued upon evidence of the prior sale to an authorized exchange bank of the equivalent in U.S. dollars (which may be purchased in the free market). In any event, payments may be effected freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, except that authorized exchange banks may make remittances for divi- dends and interest without licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain strategic articles and of a few commodities in short supply to any destination require licenses.1 For exports to all countries other than the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan, a declaration by the exporter showing how the export proceeds will be collected must be approved by the Department of Commerce and Industry. The U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of most exports originating in Main- land China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan are freely disposable. However, portions of the U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of certain exports originating in these countries must be surrendered, viz., 50 per cent for cotton yarn, 25 per cent for lead, silver (subject to prior permission), and tin, 20 per cent for copper and feathers, and 15 per cent for wood oil; the remaining percentages may be sold in the free market. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports originating in other countries must be entirely surrendered. Exchange proceeds in other currencies from exports to countries other than Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Taiwan, and the Sterling Area must be received in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of destination (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and surrendered. Proceeds from invisibles The receipt of transfers from other parts of the Sterling Area, unless in respect of dividends or interest, requires permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender 1 Export licensing in Hong Kong, as in some other areas, is not related to exchange control. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official rate. The surrender of other exchange receipts from invisibles is not insisted upon. Capital Outgoing transfers of capital in currencies other than U.S. dollars may be effected at the official rate; but they require licenses, which are granted only for approved purposes or—at the discretion of the local control—provided the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank. Transfers of capital can be effected freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars, but all transfers to and receipts from other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, which are granted for all bona fide transactions effected be- tween Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (sterling per Hong Kong dollar or Hong Kong dollars per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling HONG KONG Is. 2 15/16d. All transactions in sterling against Hong Kong dollars. (Rates for non-dollar currencies are based on the sterling rate.) HKS5.694 Exports not originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan, payable in U.S. dollars. HK$5.922 (50% at HK$5£94 and 50% at Free Market Rate) Cotton yarn exports.2 HKS6.036 (25% at HK&5.694 and 75% at Free Market Rate) Lead, silver, and tin exports.2 HK36.259 (20% at HK&5J694 and 80% at Free Market Rate) Copper and feather exports.2 HK$6.082 (15% at HKM.694 and 85% at Free Market Rate) Wood oil exports.2 HK$6.15 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other exports. Invisibles and capital. Changes during 1956 Is. 2 27/32d. All transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling. or HKS5.776 as appropriate. A few essential imports payable in U.S. dollars. Authorized invisibles and capi- tal. All non-dollar imports. HK$6.16 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other imports payable in U.S. dol- lars. Other invisibles and capital. April 3. Prior approval of the exchange control was required for pur- chases of exchange by authorized banks of family remittances exceed- ing HK$3,200 sent to Hong Kong residents from residents of Southeast Asia (British North Borneo, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaya, Sarawak, Singapore, Thailand, and Viet-Nam). 2 Originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan, and received in U.S. dollars. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value islcelandic Kronur 16.2857 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 16.26 buying, IKr 16.32 selling, per US$1. There is a tax of 16 per cent on the sale of foreign exchange for imports and invisibles, with some exceptions, making an effective selling rate of IKr 18.93 per US$1. There is also a license fee of 40 per cent on exchange for travel for business and tourism, which (including the exchange tax) creates an additional effectiKO^dHio&_rate of IKr 25.46 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Exchange Control Territory Iceland is a part of the Sterling Area —the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The granting of import licenses, where required for goods not on the free lists, is in the hands of the Import Office, which is also responsible for the over-all administration of exchange control. The two largest Icelandic banks have the exclusive right to buy and sell foreign exchange, and they determine from time to time the extent to which exchange is available to pay for imports. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from certain countries in respect of speci- fied transactions must be effected in the currency and by the method laid down in the payments agreements concluded with those countries.1 Imports and Import Payments Regardless of other requirements, prior certification is required from an Icelandic bank that exchange is available to pay for an import before the import can be effected. Certain imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined form; these licenses are granted on a consideration of the essentiality of the goods and the availability of exchange to pay 1 Apart from agreements with EPU countries, Iceland has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, Spain, and UJ3.S.R. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND for them.2 Imports are classified in seven categories, on six of which an import fee is payable. These categories, with the import fee and a representative list of goods for each, are as follows: Category 1 (preserved fruits, carpets, refrigerators, washing machines, radios, wa tches): 80 per cent Category 2 (fresh and dried fruits): 70 per cent Category 3 (honey, glucose, pencils, toothpaste, soap, perfume, leather articles, paper, various textiles, sanitary and photographic appliances): 55 per cent Category 4 (implements, household utensils): 35 per cent Category 5 (cement, timber, and some other building materials): 8 per cent Category 6 (all items not classified under Categories 1-5 and not exempted from import f e e ): 11 per cent Category 7 (most important raw materials and equipment for the fishing industry and for agriculture, and most essential food- s tu f fs) : no import fee There is a tax of 16 per cent on sales of foreign exchange to pay for imports, except imports of equipment and raw materials for fisheries and agriculture. Also, when import licenses for passenger automobiles are issued, a fee amounting to 35 per cent of the amount licensed must be paid, and a further, temporary, license fee —amounting to 125 per cent of the f .o.b. value of passenger cars and delivery vans (under three tons) must also be paid. The proceeds of the exchange tax, the import fees, and the import license fees are paid to an Export Fund that pro- vides assistance to producers of commodities for export. Payments for Invisibles All outgoing payments require licenses, which are granted only on the basis of essentiality and the availability of the required foreign ex- change. A tax of 16 per cent is payable on foreign exchange payments, except for transfers for students, medical care, foreign labor, and freight and insurance. At the time of issuance of exchange licenses for travel, other than for study or medical treatment, a fee of 40 per cent of the amount is also payable to the Export Fund. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of IKr 150. The export of Icelandic 2 On February 5, 1957, a free list was published of goods not requiring an import and exchange license. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresidents may re-export un- expended amounts of foreign banknotes and coins that were declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered at the official rate. Some time after the exchange has been surrendered, payments are made from the Export Fund to producers of certain com- modities, on the basis of a determined percentage of the f .o.b. value of exports of those commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Shipowners and insurance companies are permitted to use a portion of their ex- change earnings for operating purposes. The import of Icelandic bank- notes and coins is prohibited. Capital All foreign investments are subject to individual approval. Incoming foreign capital in the form of exchange must be surrendered. Outgoing transfers of capital require approval, which is granted only in excep- tional cases. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents are subject to registration, and all transactions or operations concerning them are subject to license. The import and export of securities is also subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956)3 (kronur per C/jS. dollar) Buying (Official Rate) All exchange proceeds. 16.26 16.32 18.93 Selling (Official Rate) Imports and invisibles exempt from tax. (Official Rate plus 16% Tax) Most imports and invisibles. 25.46 (Official Rate plus 16% Tax and 40% License Fee) Business and tourist travel. 3 This table shows the effective exchange rates allowing for the taxes payable directly on exchange licenses and foreign payments; it does not take account of the special fees payable on imports or the subsidies given later to producers of export commodities. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Changes during 1956 December 22. New measures abolishing the use of import certificates became effective. A tax of 16 per cent was imposed on sales of exchange for imports and invisibles, with some exceptions, and the tax on foreign exchange for travel for tourism or business was increased from 25 per cent to 40 per cent. In addition, new import fees, varying according to the category of goods, were imposed. These taxes and fees were to be paid into an Export Fund, from which payments would be made to pro- ducers of certain export commodities on the basis of the f.o.b. value of their exports. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions are effected at uniform rates. All transactions in foreign ex- change must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose dealings with the general public must be effected as follows: in Pakistan rupees and pounds sterling, at rates fixed by the Exchange Banks Association; in other currencies, including U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars, at rates at or between the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of England for spot transactions and at freely determined market rates for forward transactions. Further, authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies1 in the London market. They may also cover their permitted transactions in the specified cur- rencies against sterling, rupees, or any one of the specified currencies, either spot or forward, with their agents in the respective countries of the specified currencies. Administration of Control Like other Sterling Area countries, India has an exchange control system similar to that in operation in the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. The administrative work and decisions on exchange control matters are handled by the Reserve Bank of India, in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Indian Govern- ment in consultation with the Reserve Bank. A great deal of routine work on exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency Transactions with nonresidents are subject to the prescription of currency requirements: i.e., payments to or from foreign countries must be effected in the currency prescribed by the exchange control authority, for the most part in conformity with the exchange control regulations of the United Kingdom. In general, settlements may be made by the transfer of sterling or rupees to or from accounts related to the country concerned, while with some countries settlements may be made also in specified currencies.1 Exceptionally, for exports to Egypt 1 For a list of the specified currencies, see foo tno te 6 in the survey on the United Kingdom. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA payment may be received only in Indian rupees from the accounts of Egyptian banks, and payments between India and Pakistan may be effected only in Indian or Pakistan rupees according to special arrange- ments between the two countries. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts consist of rupee accounts belonging to banks, or to private individuals or firms, resident outside India. Payments to the accounts of nonresident banks for imports, interest, dividends, and allowances may be made by authorized dealers without prior approval; other payments from residents to such accounts must be approved by the Reserve Bank. The nonresident accounts of foreign banks may be drawn on to pay for Indian exports and for other payments, if the amount of an individual transaction does not exceed Rs 20,000. For all other credits and debits to the accounts of banks, prior approval of the Reserve Bank must be obtained. Rupee balances of banks in other Sterling Area territories may be transferred freely from one account to another. Those of banks outside the Sterling Area may be trans- ferred freely to nonresident rupee accounts of banks within the Sterling Area. Transfers between rupee accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area are also allowed. All other interbank transfers require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payments of dividends and interest on securities and proceeds of small checks up to certain limits. They may be debited for such items as payments for insurance premiums, income taxes, and remittances to'relatives, subject to the limit of Rs 500 for each transaction. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers normally are not permitted from the accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area, unless the items origi- nally credited to such accounts were "currently remittable" in nature. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital pro- ceeds that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances on blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities. The income derived from such investments may be remitted to the owner's country with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Goods may be imported into India under either open general licenses or individual licenses. Open general licenses permit individuals or firms 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA to import the goods listed therein without quantitative limitation from the countries or monetary areas specified. There are three open general licenses, listing goods which may be imported freely from (1) all countries except the Union of South Africa, (2) all soft currency coun- tries except the Union of South Africa, and (3) Pakistan. Individual licensing can be by quotas allocated to established importers in accord- ance with their imports in a base period and to actual users on the basis of their current requirements or by ad hoc licensing. Currency-wise, there are two kinds of license, those for imports from soft currency countries and those for imports from all countries. The licenses for soft currency countries are automatically available to the extent of 50 per cent (and for some commodities, more than 50 per cent) for imports from hard currency countries. No distinction is made between one country and another within either currency area, except that imports from the Union of South Africa are prohibited and certain imports from Pakistan are admitted on a more liberal basis than from other countries. At the beginning of each half-yearly licensing period, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for established import- ers, actual users, and newcomers. There are also special procedures applicable to capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to fulfill government contracts and irrigation projects. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is re- leased by authorized banks on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. The license holder may effect payments by opening letters of credit or by making remittances against sight drafts. Advance remittances in payment of imports before shipping documents are received are not normally permitted; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authoriza- tion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. How- ever, except for travel, insurance, and a few other items, foreign ex- change is granted freely for such payments, especially for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to resi- dents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insur- ance policies in foreign currencies. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident in any country outside India, provided all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums or other expenses, and for the support of their families. For Sterling Area nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, authorized dealers may allow such remit- tances by the principal member of a family up to a maximum of £150 per month, in the currency of any Sterling Area country. Nationals of Pakistan are allowed to remit up to Rs 50 per month for the support of their dependents in Pakistan. Each application from nationals of countries outside the Sterling Area is considered on its own merits and facilities are provided for the remittance of savings that the applicant may reasonably be expected to make. Foreign exchange facilities are granted for business travel and edu- cation abroad according to a scale of allowances fixed for each country. To obtain exchange for travel for other purposes, individual applica- tion must be made. Persons leaving India, except those going to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Portuguese territories in India, may take out Indian and foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding a total value of Rs 270 per month. Persons leaving for Pakistan may take out not more than Rs 50 per day in Indian notes and coins and another PRs 100 in Pakis- tan notes and coins. Persons leaving for Afghanistan may take out Afghan currency without limit and Rs 50 per day in Indian notes and coins. Persons leaving for the Portuguese territories in India are not allowed to take out any currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of certain commodities is controlled by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and may be effected only under an open general license or a special license. Goods on open general license are not subject to quantitative restriction and may be exported to any destination unless the open general license is valid only for the dollar area or for Pakistan. Controlled exports not under open general license may be licensed either freely or under global quotas. The export of goods is permitted only if the exporter makes a declara- tion on the prescribed form to the Collector of Customs that foreign 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA exchange representing the full export value of the goods has been or will be disposed of in a manner and within the period specified by the Reserve Bank. The currencies in which the export proceeds may be received are prescribed (see section en Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles in U.S. dollars and Philippine pesos must be surrendered. All other receipts may be retained, but their disposal is subject to license. General permission has been granted by the Reserve Bank for any person to bring or send into India without limit Indian currency and banknotes from any foreign country, except from Pakistan, Afghanis- tan, and Burma, where special limitations apply. With the exception of Bank of England notes, which are limited to £10 per person, foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding duly certified declaration forms may sell the relevant currency notes to any money-changer or authorized dealer in foreign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it forms part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government; in such cases, applications have to be made to the Reserve Bank, which refers them to the Indian Government. Exchange receipts from approved foreign capital investment and from capital in Philip- pine pesos or U.S. dollars must be surrendered; all other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires a license. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment as Indian enterprises. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and of capital invested in India by resi- dents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, is freely authorized. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries may be repatriated at any time, including capital appreciation on the original investment. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) who emi- grate to a Sterling Area country may transfer their assets in fu ll at the time of emigration. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA India) who emigrate to a country outside the Sterling Area may trans- fer up to Rs 75,000 for emigration to the dollar area and up to Rs 125,000 for emigration to any other country; any remaining assets are blocked. Sterling Area nationals temporarily resident but not domiciled in India are permitted to repatriate their assets, including capital investments, to any Sterling Area country at the time of their repatriation. Sterling Area nationals who emigrate from India to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are permitted remittance facilities on the same scale as in the United Kingdom. Other nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the sale proceeds of their investments, subject to an over-all limit of Rs 125,000 per holder, provided any shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. Any amount exceeding that authorized for free transfer is blocked. There are no restrictions on the import into India of domestic or foreign securities. Domestic dealings in rupee securities are not sub- ject to restriction. Persons resident in India may deal in the shares of sterling companies which are operating exclusively in India and which maintain two registers, one in India and the other in the United King- dom, provided payment is made in rupees and the shares are on an Indian register. The export of securities and their transfer to non- residents require approval. Persons resident in India who become own- ers of foreign securities are permitted to hold them, provided they have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange control regulations. The sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Changes during 1956 May 20. Authorized dealers were allowed to approve remittances for such expenses related to exports as superintendence fees, weight certifi- cates, and quality report fees, without reference to the Reserve Bank. June 21. Authorized dealers were allowed to deal in spot exchange transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery, with authorized banks in Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland, in any of their currencies or against Indian rupees or sterling. Exceptionally, however, forward transactions with banks in France or in French francs were limited to three months. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA June 29. Authorized dealers were allowed to approve remittances for payment of examination fees to educational institutions outside India up to a limit of Rs 150 for any one applicant. August 24. The full proceeds (100 per cent) of import bills for goods shipped from Egypt to India had to be paid to the "B" Account, where they could be utilized for financing Egyptian purchases in India or for making other local payments. Previously, this requirement had applied to only 40 per cent of such proceeds, the balance being remittable in sterling. August 31. The open general license covering imports from Pakistan was extended to October 31,1956. September 3. Authorized dealers in India were allowed to deal in U.S. and Canadian dollars at rates to be determined by market condi- tions, as in the case of other currencies. All spot transactions between banks and their customers and between authorized dealers must be effected at or between the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of England. Authorized dealers were also permitted to deal in forward exchange transactions in these currencies at market rates. October 1. New open general licenses for imports were issued. The open general license relating to imports from all countries and that relating to imports from soft currency areas were replaced by new licenses valid until June 30, 1957. The open general license covering imports from Persian Gulf Sheikdoms was allowed to lapse. October 31. The open general license covering imports from Paki- stan was reissued, to be valid until January 31, 1957. December 27. It was announced that beginning January 1,1957 there would be no basic allowance of foreign exchange for travel abroad for pleasure or personal convenience. December 29. It was announced that all soft currency licenses issued for the period January-June 1957 would be automatically valid for imports from the dollar area to the extent of 50 per cent or, for some commodities, more than 50 per cent. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. The basic rate is Rp 11.40 per US$1, the official rates being Rp 11.355 buying, Rp 11.475 selling, per US$1. However, additional premiums and taxes apply to most transactions, so that the effective exchange rates range up to approximately Rp 15.915 buying, Rp 57.375 selling, per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). These rates arise from the negotiation of export incentive certificates (BPE), which are given to most exporters for the nominal value of a proportion, ranging from 2 to 20 per cent, of their export proceeds and are required to finance certain imports and invisibles. The purchase price of these certificates as at December 31, 1956 was Rp 2.00 per Rp 1.00 nominal value. On the selling side, the higher effective rates arise also from the payment of additional import levies (TPI), ranging from 25 to 400 per cent, which are a prerequisite for obtaining an import-exchange license for most imports, and from the payment of a transfer tax (TPT) of 66% per cent on the transfer of certain invisibles. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Institute (which is under the direction of the Bank Indonesia), on whose behalf combined import and exchange licenses are issued by the Bureau for Import-Exchange Licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Bureau for Exports. Control is actually managed by the Bank Indonesia, the commercial banks authorized for this purpose, and the customs. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized exchange banks and in the currency stipulated in the license. Pay- ments to and from OEEC countries can be settled in Netherlands guilders through Indonesia's account with the Netherlands Bank. Pay- ments to and from South American countries are also settled largely through that account. Only imports originating in the dollar area may be paid in U.S. dollars. By arrangement with the governments con- cerned, Indonesia obtains reimbursement of U.S. dollars from the Netherlands, and also from Singapore and Malaya, for Indonesian goods re-exported by those countries to the dollar area. Payments to Mainland China, Egypt, Japan, and Poland, with which Indonesia has payments agreements, are settled through special clearing accounts. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Nonresident Accounts There are two classes of nonresident account, as described in the following paragraphs. 1. Accounts of foreign banks. Balances that have been created by transferring foreign currency to Indonesia are freely convertible into the same currency and may be transferred freely to accounts of non- resident banks of the same monetary area. 2. All other nonresident accounts. The opening of these accounts and all entries require permission from the Foreign Exchange Institute. These accounts are designated as Capital Accounts or Income Accounts, transfers from the former to the latter not being allowed. For nonresi- dent accounts of private persons, the authorized exchange banks have been given permission to make routine personal payments in Indonesia and yearly transfers up to a maximum of Rp 25,000 in the currency of the nonresident out of his current income. The granting of licenses for remittances to the debit of Capital Accounts, viz., capital remit- tances and remittances of inheritances, has been suspended since January 1, 1954. However, in cases of destitution, transfers to the debit of Capital Accounts may be permitted up to limited amounts at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute. Imports and Import Payments Business establishments wishing to import must obtain the official recognition of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Most importers are required to lodge a deposit with the Foreign Exchange Fund: for Indo- nesian nationals, the amount of the deposit is Rp 500,000; for non- nationals (other than those classified as industrial or horticultural and importing goods solely for their own use), the amount is Rp 5,000,000. After the importer has been registered, the deposit may be used to pay additional import levies, as well as to make the required 100 per cent advance deposit of the rupiah equivalent of the proposed import. Importers of most goods are obliged to pay additional amounts by means of two requirements—payment of an additional import levy and surrender of export incentive certificates —as described in the fol- lowing paragraphs. An additional import levy (TPI) is payable in rupiah, at a percent- age of the rupiah equivalent of the nominal c. & f. value of the import (insurance has to be covered with insurance companies in Indonesia) converted at the official selling rate. The percentage depends on the degree of essentiality of the commodity to be imported and whether or 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA not the import must be financed with BPE's. Amounts received from the sale of TPI certificates are transferred weekly for the account of the Foreign Exchange Fund. An export incentive certificate (BPE) is required for certain imports (originally estimated at some 6 to 7 per cent of total imports, but in practice this percentage will probably not be reached). BPE's result from the surrender of export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The import of commodities in seven of the categories on which TPI's are payable and the transfer of certain invisibles must be financed with BPE's. BPE certificates are denomi- nated in rupiah and are negotiable; they represent foreign exchange. Importers of commodities which should be financed with BPE's are required to surrender certificates having the nominal face value of the rupiah equivalent at the basic rate of the foreign exchange requested for the import. These certificates entitle the holder to obtain from his bank without further payment the exchange to pay for the import. The cost of the exchange made available in this way is taken out of the Foreign Exchange Fund. Import commodities are classified in nine main groups. For imports in Group I, no special surcharges are payable; for imports in Group II, an additional import levy (TPI) is payable. Imports in the remaining seven groups are divided into subgroups A and B, according to com- modity. Those in subgroups A are subject to payment of TPI; those in subgroups B must be financed with export incentive certificates (BPE's) for the fu ll amount of the import, but then the TPI is less than for items in subgroup A of the same group. The following table shows the grouping of imports and the TPI payable on each subgroup. GROUPING OF IMPORTS AND THE ADDITIONAL IMPORT LEVY (TPI) PAYABLE Group Subgroup A Subgroup B1 I. Highly essential goods — II. Essentials 25% III. Essentials 50% IV. Semiessentials 75% V. Semiessentials 100% VI. Luxuries 150% VII. Luxuries 200% VIII. Superluxuries 300% IX. Superluxuries 400% 25% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% 300% 1 Imports in subgroups B of Groups III through IX must be financed w i th export incentive certificates (BPE's). 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — INDONESIA In order to apply for a combined import and exchange license, the potential importer must obtain the confirmation of an authorized bank (this confirmation is put on the importer's application for the license) that he has paid to the bank (1) an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the rupiah equivalent of the proposed import calculated at the official selling rate and (2) the appropriate TPI. The combined import and exchange license enables the import to be effected and the foreign exchange specified in the license (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above) to be obtained from an authorized exchange bank. For imports that must be financed with BPE's, the 100 per cent advance deposit is refunded to the importer, upon approval of his application for an import-exchange license, to enable him to buy BPE's in the market to finance the import. The license becomes invalid if the importer has not succeeded in purchasing the necessary BPE's within 20 days after the date of the license. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles are subject to special licenses from the Foreign Exchange Institute, although for items that represent the current income of individuals abroad and for such items as rents and dividends, foreign exchange is granted freely up to certain limits in accordance with general licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Insti- tute to the authorized banks. A 66% per cent tax (TPT) is payable on transfers of foreign exchange for most invisibles not directly related to the movement of goods or to private remittances of a personal nature. Most payments for travel, advertising expenses, fees, and office expenses must be financed with BPE's having a face value equal to the amount of the payment at the official rate. The exchange is then supplied without further payment. To foreign nationals resident in Indonesia, foreign exchange up to 20 per cent of the remitter's gross taxable salary is supplied for private remittances, such as the main- tenance of families abroad, children's educational expenses, and the remittance of savings, with an annual over-all total of Rp 36,000 per remitter for those in independent professions and of Rp 48,000 for employed persons. These quotas are granted at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute. Payments for life insurance premiums, annuities, and similar items are limited to Rp 300 per month. Exchange for these items is granted only to persons in independent professions and persons not qualifying for exchange quotas. The latter group of foreign nationals receive exchange only if their obligations to pay came into existence prior to May 1, 1953. For such items as advertis- ing, film rentals, and charitable remittances, exchange is granted at 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute, on individual appli- cation. Foreign exchange is not available to pay insurance premiums on imports. The export of Indonesian and foreign banknotes and coins is pro- hibited, but residents going abroad are provided with small amounts of foreign banknotes to meet their traveling expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exporters (with the exception of those oil companies to which special arrangements apply) are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled. Exports must, as a rule, be financed by irrevocable bank credits, and the drafts drawn on such credits must be sight drafts. Exports may not be invoiced in rupiah, but must be invoiced in a currency acceptable to the Bureau for Exports. There are no general limitations as to the destination of exports, but the Bureau for Exports will refuse export licenses if, for example, the shipment should not conform to existing trade agreements. Exports of high-grade rubber, estate coffee, and tea to Singapore and other Malayan ports are prohibited. Exporters of most goods—except cane sugar, tin ore, crude oil, and crude oil products —receive, in addition to the face value of their export earnings at the official rate, an export incentive certificate (BPE) for a specified percentage of the foreign exchange surrendered; the percentages range from 2 per cent to 20 per cent, according to the commodity exported (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). BPE certificates are negotiable and are required to finance certain imports and invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indo- nesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled. Foreign nationals resident in Indonesia may retain, in the currency of the country of their nationality, any income that does not arise from foreign trade. The import of Indonesian banknotes and coins is prohibited. Foreign banknotes and coins may be imported on the condition that they are surrendered to the Bank Indonesia at the official buying rate. Visitors planning to stay in Indonesia no longer than 3 months may, after a record has been made, retain their foreign currency and take it 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA with them on departure or sell it to an authorized bank; but they may exchange only the following currencies, and only with an authorized bank: (1) U.S. banknotes (in denominations not exceeding $50) and U.S. travelers checks; (2) sterling banknotes (in denominations not exceeding £1) and sterling travelers checks (payable outside the Sterling A r e a ); and (3) Malayan banknotes (in denominations not exceeding $M 10). After 90 days, the visitor intending to re-export his foreign currency must apply for an extension of his permit. Capital There are no limitations on the remittance into Indonesia by non- residents of capital which, if it were in the form of foreign exchange, would have to be surrendered in accordance with the regulations. Foreign investments in companies operating in Indonesia have been classified as "active" or "passive" investments as of December 27, 1949. The "active" group includes investments in companies owned by corporate bodies that were registered abroad as of that date, as well as investments in limited liability companies which, although registered in Indonesia, were owned by one or by a few foreigners residing abroad. The "passive" group includes investments that do not fulfill these requirements. Profits on "active" investments may be transferred abroad in the following way: After having paid its corporation tax (ranging from 40 per cent to 52^ per cent of gross profits), the company has to deposit 40 per cent of the remaining 60 to 47% per cent of its profits in an account in its name with the Bank Indonesia (reserved p ro f i t s ); the balance may then be transferred abroad, subject, however, to payment of the 66% per cent TPT (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The reserved profits may be used for financing new capital equipment and for some other purposes, to be decided upon by the Bank Indonesia. No transfer of profits on "passive" investments is allowed; however, a transfer of dividends may be allowed upon individual application—made in accordance with a decision of a general shareholders' meeting of the company concerned— but not more than 40 per cent of gross profits or more than 30 per cent of the company's paid-up capital may be transferred. Such transfer of dividends is also subject to the 66% per cent TPT. Foreign investments made after December 27, 1949 in companies operating in Indonesia are, generally speaking, distinguished as (1) investments which are additional to already classified "active" and "passive" investments and (2) totally new investments. The former group is subject to the same regulations as investments classi- 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA fied as "active" or "passive." Totally new investments are subject to regulations which are agreed upon, case by case, between the author- ities and the interested parties, pending the final enactment of the new Foreign Investment Law. For instance, transfers of profits by foreign companies that have been established in Indonesia in 1954 or thereafter are generally exempt from payment of the 66% per cent TPT. Residents are required to surrender exchange from capital, and approval is not normally given to them for capital payments abroad. Residents may trade in the Djakarta market in registered foreign securities, including registered bonds and shares, obligations, bank mortgages, profit-sharing certificates, and similar securities, coupons, and dividend warrants. Residents may also trade in unregistered secur- ities, provided a nonresident does not benefit thereby, directly or indirectly. Nonresidents are permitted to trade in specified domestic securities, provided the proceeds of any sale are credited to a nonresi- dent Capital Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ); they may use funds from nonresident accounts to purchase specified domestic securities, and may export securities so purchased to the Netherlands or to the nonresident's country of residence within 90 days of purchase, provided that if the security is reimported or not exported within the time limit it shall be dealt with only with approval of the Foreign Exchange Institute. The import of foreign securities into Indo- nesia is subject to license, the issue of which is subject to a special import levy (TPI-E) of 33% per cent of the current domestic market value of the security. The proceeds of this tax are payable to the Foreign Exchange Fund. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956)2 (rupiah per U.S. dollar) Buying 11.355 (Official Rate) Exports of cane sugar, tin ore, crude oil, and crude oil products. Invisibles not directly related to goods. 11.811 (Official Rate plus 2% BPE) Exports of low-grade rubber. 12.495 (Official Rate plus 6% BPE) Exports of high-grade rubber and oil- palm seed and oil. 12.723 (Official Rate plus 6% BPE) Exports of unassorted copal, resin, and rattan. 13.179 (Official Rate plus 8% BPE) Exports of leaf tobacco. 13.635 (Official Rate plus 10% BPE) Exports of pepper, coffee, copra, animal hides, shells, dried tapioca and dried tapioca flour, seed mace, areca nuts, cut tobacco, assorted copal, resin, and rat- tan, teak and forest wood, and all other agricultural products not specified at another rate. 14.775 (Official Rate plus 16% BPE) Exports of kapok, copra oilcake, essen- tial oils, and peanuts. 15.003 (Official Rate plus 16% BPE) Exports of tea. 15.915 (Official Rate plus 20% BPE) Exports of. rope fiber and tapioca. Selling 11.475 (Official Rate) Group I imports^ (highly essential goods). Authorized invisibles (other than freight on imports) directly re- lated to goods. Remittances of a per- sonal nature (within specified quotas). Government transfers. 14.344 (Official Rate plus 25% TP1) Group II imports (essentials). 17.213 (Official Rate plus 50% TPI) Group III imports (other essentials). 19.125 (Official Rate plus 6&&% TPT) Authorized invisibles not directly re- lated to goods or to remittances of a personal nature, and exempt from BPE. 2 The compounded rates in this table constitute the effective rates that result from adding to the official exchange rate the price of the appropriate TPI certifi- cate and from the use of BPE certificates. The calculations were made on the basis of the price for BPE certificates as at December 31, 1956—Rp 2.00 per Rp 1.00 nominal value. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (rupiah per C/jS. dottar) INDONESIA Buying Selling 20.081 (Official Rate plus 75% TPI) Group IV imports (semiessentials). 22.80 (Price of BPE) Most payments for travel, advertising, fees, and office expenses, and increases in foreign exchange quotas. 22.950 (Official Rate plus 100% TPI) Group V imports (other semiessentials). 25.669 (*5% TPI plus BPE) Group III imports subject to BPE. 28.538 (60% TPI plus BPE) Group IV imports subject to BPE. 28.688 (Official Rate plus 150% TPI) Group VI imports (luxuries). 31.406 (75% TPI plus BPE) Group V imports subject to BPE. 34.275 (100% TPI plus BPE) Group VI imports subject to BPE. 34.425 (Official Rate plus 200% TPI) Group VII imports (other luxuries). 40.013 (150% TPI plus BPE) Group VII imports subject to BPE. 45.750 (200% TPI plus BPE) Group VIII imports subject to BPE. 45.900 (Official Rate plus 300% TPI) Group VIII imports (superluxuries). 57.225 (300% TPI plus BPE) Group IX imports subject to BPE. 57.375 (Official Rate plus 400% TPI) Group IX imports (other superluxuries). Changes during 1956 January 10. It was announced that foreign exchange quotas for imports in 1956 were to be at the same level as in 1955. February 1. National importers were required to deposit Rp 500,000 with the Foreign Exchange Fund. Amounts so deposited could be used to pay advance deposits on imports. March 1. The premium payable to exporters of fiber was increased from 10 per cent to 25 per cent. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA March 10. The premium for kapok exports was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. May 5. The premium payable to exporters of tea was increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. A premium of 10 per cent was set for exports of vorstenlanden tobacco for 1956-57 and subsequent crop years. Previously, tobacco exports were not eligible for premiums. August L Indonesia terminated the bilateral payments arrange- ments with Mexico. All payments between the two countries were now to be made in U.S. dollars. August 6. A system of negotiable export incentive certificates (BPE) was introduced. Under this system, an exporter received a BPE cer- tifiate (denominated in rupiah) for a specified percentage of the rupiah value (at the basic rate) of his export. The percentages ranged up to 20 per cent. Certain imports and invisibles had to be financed with BPE's having a face value, equivalent to the rupiah cost of the exchange at the basic rate. The required 100 per cent advance deposit for imports would be refunded to the importer after approval of his application for an import-exchange license, to enable him to buy the BPE's in the market to finance the import. The invisibles included most travel payments, advertising expenses, fees, office expenses, and increases in foreign exchange quotas. September 3. Import commodities, except certain essentials, were reclassified into (1) those for which a TPI must be paid, and (2) those for which a TPI must be paid and which must be financed with BPE certificates. There were eight categories with levies ranging from 25 per cent to 400 per cent in the first classification and seven cate- gories with levies ranging from 25 per cent to 300 per cent in the second classification. The nature of the BPE was also changed, so that it entitled the holder, on presentation of a valid exchange license, to receive from a bank without further payment the equivalent amount of foreign exchange at the basic rate. The cost of the exchange is taken out of the Foreign Exchange Fund. The BPE percentage granted for exports of high-grade rubber was lowered from 8 per cent to 5 per cent, and for low-grade rubber from 3 per cent to 2 per cent. October 1. Indonesia terminated the bilateral payments agreements with East Germany, Hungary, Rumania, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with these countries would henceforth be made in transferable sterling. November. 17. A new trade and payments agreement with Czecho- slovakia came into effect, under which payments between the two countries would be made in transferable sterling, instead of through clearing accounts, as previously. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Iranian Rials 32.25 = US$1. In practice, however, all transactions take place at the rates fixed by the Bank Melli Iran: Rls 75.00 buying, Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. There are charges on the invoiced amount of all imported goods of % of 1 per cent for sanitary services and of 1/10 of 1 per cent under the law on encouragement of exports. Administration of Control Exchange control is vested in the Exchange Control Committee, composed of representatives from the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank Melli Iran. Import licenses are issued by the customs authorities. Exchange licenses are issued by the Exchange Control Committee. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks. The Ministry of National Economy determines the classification of imported and exported com- modities. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be settled in specified currencies. Trans- fers to the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars. The free Swiss franc is payable vis-a-vis Switzerland. Transactions with countries with which Iran has payments or clear- ing agreements must be conducted in the currencies specified in the agreements: U.S. dollar accounts are used for transactions under the agreements with Hungary and Italy; the Swiss franc is specified in the agreement with Czechoslovakia, the pound sterling in the agreement with Poland, and the French f ranc in the agreement with France. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are freely permitted to maintain accounts, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only to effect payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified in two categories, essential and nonessential; each commodity in the nonessential category receives a quota estab- 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN lished in rials, while there is a global quota, initially established at Rls 4 billion but since increased, for essential imports. In addition, there is a list of prohibited imports. The Ministry of National Econ- omy decides both the quotas and the prohibited goods. Under the import regulations, if the quotas should prove to be inadequate, they may be raised by the Ministry of National Economy, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the need for protect- ing domestic industries. No quotas are set for commodities imported under state monopoly, such as sugar, silkworm eggs, tobacco, cigarette paper, and railway equipment. Special permits may be issued to pri- vate traders or institutions to import these commodities. Import licenses, which are required to clear goods through customs, are issued automatically by the customs authorities upon presentation of documents indicating that payment for these goods has been or will be effected through an authorized bank. In addition, the customs authorities check whether the import is authorized (i.e., not pro- hibited) and under which category the import falls. Imports of precious metals, such as silver, gold, and platinum, are permitted, provided no exchange is transferred therefor; in such cases, an import license is not required. Under a general license, authorized banks may make payments against shipping documents for nonprohibited imports. Charges are levied on the invoiced amount of all imported goods of ^ of 1 per cent for sanitary services and of 1/10 of 1 per cent under the law on encour- agement of exports. Persons holding "own exchange" are permitted to utilize the exchange for imports, provided they pay Rls 1.50 per US$1 of the import value to the authorized bank. Imports effected with "own exchange" should fa ll within the quotas. Agreements concluded between private merchants or commercial firms in Iran with private concerns abroad for the exchange of per- mitted products may be approved by the Ministry of National Econ- omy upon submission of a detailed list of the goods to be exported and imported. Imports under private barter arrangements from countries whose currencies are not purchased by the Bank Melli Iran are author- ized, provided the importer pays Rls 1.50 per US$1 of the import value, plus 1/10 of 1 per cent, and ^ of 1 per cent ( for sanitary services), of the import value to an authorized bank; except in the case of exports to a country with which a payments agreement is in force, such counter- imports need not be obtained from the country to which the export was directed. The list of prohibited imports and the quotas are appli- cable to imports under barter. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Payments for Invisibles All payments for noncommercial purposes require licenses issued by the Exchange Control Committee. Licenses are issued mainly for medi- cal treatment and living expenses abroad and for expenses of Iranian students studying abroad. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian imports, but for imports covered by documentary credits, the insurance jnust be taken out in Iran and the exchange granted used for this purpose. For imports made against sight drafts, however, the c.i.f. value of the goods may be transferred to the exporter abroad. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Residents going abroad as tourists may acquire licenses to purchase exchange at the Rls 76.50 rate. Travelers may take with them Rls 2,000 in Iranian banknotes when going abroad; Iranian pilgrims to Iraq, however, may take with them Rls 3,500 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of Iranian nationality may export foreign currency as authorized by the Exchange Control Committee. Nonresident travelers may not export foreign currency in excess of the amounts they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities, mainly wheat, barley, and rice, are prohibited except under license. Export receipts, up to the amount of the export value as appraised by the customs authorities, must- be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months after the export takes place. Under private clearing arrangements approved by the Ministry of National Economy, however, export proceeds need not be surrendered, but the exporters should import authorized goods equivalent to the value of the goods exported. Within the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), authorized banks accept export proceeds in Belgian francs, French francs, deutsche mark, Indian rupees, Netherlands guilders, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Export proceeds in other currencies may be used by the exporter to purchase imports payable in the same currency. Re-exports are prohibited, except that goods to which 50 per cent or more of value has been added by manu fac tu re may be re-exported, provided that foreign exchange equivalent to 150 per cent of the origi- 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN nal landed value is obtained on reshipment. When goods imported do not correspond with the order placed by the importer, permission to re-export is given by the Exchange Control Committee, provided no exchange has been transferred or, if transferred, the importer under- takes to sell an equivalent amount of exchange to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts derived from invisibles must be surrendered at Rls 75.00 per US$1. Persons receiving foreign exchange abroad, other than export proceeds, may use this exchange to import nonprohibited goods. Travelers to Iran are permitted to bring with them an unlimited amount in foreign currencies and Iranian banknotes. Travelers of Iranian nationality must surrender their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized bank within 15 days after their arrival in the country. Other travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate (Rls 75.00). Capital Transfers of capital abroad require the approval of the Exchange Control Committee, which is given only in exceptional circumstances. Incoming capital must be registered and offered for sale to an author- ized bank within three days of receipt. In accordance with a decree of December 16, 1953, modified slightly in 1955 by the Foreign Investment Protection Act, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, or agriculture may be repatriated, together with net profits (up to a limit to be determined by implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods; transfers of exchange must be effected in the original currency and at the commercial selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in a currency acceptable to the Bank Melli Iran; the conversion into rials is effected at the commercial buying rate prevailing at the date of application for entry, and repatriation of the capital and transfers of profits will take place at the commercial selling rate on the day the transfer takes place. The Bank Melli Iran has the option to buy the exchange or to accept it as a deposit while mak- ing available the rial equivalent at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement; in this case, the rate applicable to repatriation is that at which the exchange was originally purchased. The decree guarantees legal protection for foreign capital and provides for a com- 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN mittee to make recommendations on proposed investments to the Coun- cil of Ministers. Changes during 1956 April 14. The import program for the Iranian year 1335 (March 21, 1956-March 20, 1957) was published. In addition to general regula- tions applicable to imports and exports, it contained lists of import quotas and of imports prohibited during the year 1335. Permissible imports were divided into 76 essential and 69 nonessential items. For essential imports, a global quota of Rls 4 billion was established, while for nonessential goods, individual quotas were announced. Prohibited imports could be imported from countries with which Iran has bilateral trade agreements—if the goods are included in the commodity lists of the agreements—up to the quantity and value shown therein. Barter imports would be charged against the import quotas. Merchants im- porting nonessential goods on a documentary collection basis and wish- ing to ensure that the relative quota would not be exhausted at the time of arrival of the goods were enabled to reserve the necessary allocation by depositing with the Bank Melli Iran the rial equivalent of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. (This provision was, however, canceled in September.) The opening of letters of credit was again permitted for all imports. All exports and imports were to be effected at the rates of Rls 75.00 buying, Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Implementing regulations in accordance with Article 7 of the Foreign Investment Law of November 29, 1955 became effective. April 21. The allocation of exchange for students' expenses at Rls 41.00 per US$1 was discontinued. Henceforth, exchange for this purpose would be allocated at the rate of Rls 76.50. September 11. The procedure under which importers could reserve import quotas by making a 10 per cent deposit in rials was abolished. September 30. The bilateral payments agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany expired; payments between the two countries would henceforth be made in partly convertible deutsche mark. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi Dinar 1 = US$2.80. Most transactions in the official market are effected in sterling (Iraq is one of the countries of the Sterling Area). For certain currencies, licensed dealers are author- ized to deal on the basis of London rates; for the U.S. dollar, the Cen- tral Bank of Iraq quotes an official rate at which it will sell exchange to licensed dealers to cover the excess of their dollar requirements over their purchases from customers or other banks. Administration of Control Exchange Control Law No. 18 of 1950 entrusts the Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control. In practice, how- ever, the Board has delegated most of its administrative authority to the Directorate of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through licensed dealers unless especially authorized by the Central Bank. Import and export licenses, where required, for items other than banknotes, coins, gold, and securi- ties, are issued by the Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economics. Prescription of Currency The method and currency of payment for transactions with most countries outside the Sterling Area are, in general, comparable to those applied in other countries of the Sterling Area. Insofar as Iraqi exports are concerned, receipts must be obtained in acceptable foreign currency appropriate to the country concerned, in sterling through an appro- priate account (i.e., either American, Canadian, or Transferable), or in dinars through an appropriate dinar account of a nonresident. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are designated according to the residence of the account holder. Imports and Import Payments The import control policy aims at allowing adequate imports of all goods essential for domestic consumption and development. Imports 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ of certain nonessentials are restricted. A small number of imports are prohibited for protective reasons; these include a variety of agri- cultural products, and goods produced by certain newly established Iraqi industries. All imports from hard currency countries require licenses, which are granted in accordance with an annual program based on the anticipated needs of the economy. For imports from soft currency areas, both the control policy and the licensing procedure are more liberal. The licensing procedure does not apply to most imports from soft currency countries (except certain listed goods for which an import license from the Directorate-General of Commerce should be obtained). For goods subject to license, a licensed exchange dealer may make ex- change available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license; for goods not subject to license, exchange is provided on application. A licensed dealer does not, of course, provide exchange for imports of goods licensed on the understanding that the importer will provide his own exchange. Payments to Cyprus require special authorization. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange granted for invisibles normally is restricted to travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. or a c.i.f. basis, insurance premiums, and royalties on certain cinema films. Exchange is not, however, granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Exchange is provided for the transfer of interest and profits if the amounts applied for are considered reasonable. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 per month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided the remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income. For amounts exceeding this limit, it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authority. For residents traveling abroad, there is a basic allowance of ID 100 per person per month for not more than three months in any one year. Travelers may take out ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes or the equivalent of ID 25 in foreign currency. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in foreign exchange, including up to ID 40 in the form of notes and coins. Exchange to meet the costs of business travel is subject to administrative approval. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of essential goods in short supply require licenses. Specified exports (such as certain kinds of livestock, certain foodstuffs in short supply, cereals and fruits, and raw materials in short supply, including cement and scrap metals) are prohibited. However, some prohibited commodities, such as wheat and certain fruits, may be exported if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. Generally, goods imported into Iraq may be re-exported, subject to license; however, goods imported from the hard currency area and such specified goods as cars and agricultural machinery may not be re-exported. Exporters must declare their exports to ensure that foreign exchange proceeds are received and surrendered. However, foreign exchange proceeds from exports of dates to India, Pakistan, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Persian Gulf Protectorates are exempt from the surrender requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign currency, including notes, may be brought into Iraq by travelers in unlimited amounts provided they are declared to the Iraqi customs, and the unused amount may be re-exported. Travelers other than pilgrims returning from Saudi Arabia may bring in only ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes. Capital In general, all transfers of capital abroad require exchange control approval. The transfer of capital abroad by residents is not allowed. Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer. Such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is per- mitted. Foreign investment in Iraq is permitted freely, and exchange is provided for the repatriation of reasonable profits upon submission of an audited earnings statement and proof that local taxes have been paid. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. Payments of a capital nature which are not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be disposed of, subject to Approval of the exchange control authorities. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Changes during 1956 May 1. The Directorate-General of Commerce made exchange allo- cations for 1956 imports. They amounted to ID 19.2 million for imports from hard currency areas and to ID 3.1 million for those imports from soft currency areas (including the Sterling Area) which require licenses. The Directorate-General also announced that the policy of increasing allocations during the year, if demands exceeded availabilities, and of canceling unused allocations at the end of the year, would be continued. May 15. Licensed dealers were permitted to make forward purchases of U.S. dollars from their London correspondents to cover credits opened on behalf of their clients against import licenses issued by the Iraqi authorities; spot U.S. dollars could still be purchased only from the National Bank of Iraq. July 1. The name of the National Bank of Iraq was changed to the Central Bank of Iraq. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is Israel Pounds 1.800 — US$1.1 This rate applies to most transactions, but for receipts from charitable organizations a rate of I£1.500 per US$1 applies and for some other transactions special premiums and discounts give rise to other exchange rates. When the banks purchase exchange, premiums ranging from I£0.700 to I£0.665 per US$1 are applied to the exchange proceeds of exports of most industrial products received in Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Russian rubles, sterling, Swedish kroner, or U.S. dollars, to the extent of the net exchange value added. Discounts are applied to the exchange proceeds of exports to Brazil (15 per cent), Turkey (30 per cent), Yugoslavia (13 per cent), and Argentina, Hungary, and Poland (10 per cen t), and premiums are applied on a case-to-case basis on exchange granted to pay for imports from these countries. Subsidies ranging from L£0.350 to I£1.350 per US$1 are also given on exchange payments for a small list of imports. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Dealings through Blocked Accounts take place at unofficial rates of exchange; such accounts are available for use for certain purposes (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Administration of Control Exchange control is exercised by the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Treasury (Ministry of Finance) under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out by the authorized banks. The official exchange rates are published by the Bank of Israel. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Payments with coun- tries with which payments agreements are in force2 are usually settled in U.S. dollars as an accounting unit, sterling, or the currency of the partner country. 1 This initial par value for the Israel pound was established March 13, 1957. 2 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either as foreign currency accounts or as local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account freely or, if in Israel, may convert it into Israel currency. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies, and others; (2) Blocked Accounts, further differenti- ated into "A" and "B" according to the nature of the original trans- action giving rise to the account. Blocked Accounts are available for investment in Israel securities, the purchase of real estate, payment of property tax payable by the account holder, and tourist expenses in Israel up to I£35 per day for the account holder and a like amount for each member of his family if the account has been held for at least six months. Blocked Accounts are at present opened only for the holding of funds derived from former investments; other nontrans- ferable funds are credited to Registered Accounts, which may be used for the same purposes as Blocked Accounts, but only with special approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses. Certain of these licenses are issued on the understanding that no official exchange will be granted to pay for the imports. Exchange is automatically granted for other licensed imports. Payments for all authorized imports are effected at the official rate. Subsidies on certain imports, ranging from LE0.350 to I£1.350 per US$1, are paid at the time the exchange to pay for the import is pur- chased by the importer. For imports effected under suppliers' credits, a 25 per cent advance deposit in local currency is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles require licenses. All authorized pay- ments are made at the official rate. The annual transfer of profits, interest, and repayment of loans, to a maximum of 10 per cent of invested capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments (1950), is allowed. The export of Israel banknotes is prohibited. Tourists leaving Israel are per- mitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£72. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected and may be surrendered at the official rate of I£1.800 per US$13 or deposited in PAZAK accounts with authorized commercial banks. All foreign exchange received from abroad—except that obtained by semipublic institutions—if not surrendered at the official rate may be deposited in these accounts. PAZAK accounts are kept in U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, or sterling, if the receipts are in one of those currencies; receipts in other currencies may be converted into and held in sterling. The use of these accounts requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Certain industries are permitted to keep all or part of their export proceeds in PAMAZ accounts (another type of foreign exchange account) and to use them for the purchase abroad of raw materials required for their export production. Export premiums are paid on the exchange proceeds of industrial exports (with certain exceptions) as follows (in Israel pounds per US$1): I£0.700 for proceeds received in U.S. dollars, sterling, deutsche mark, Belgian francs, or Russian rubles; I£0.680 for Italian lire; I£0.670 for French francs and Swedish kronor; and LE0.665 for Netherlands guilders and Burmese kyats. Export premiums are paid only on the "net value added," i.e., the value of the export after deducting the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. Export premiums are not paid if an exporter chooses to retain exchange in a PAMAZ account instead of surrendering it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles, in general, must be surrendered or kept as time deposits (PAZAK accounts—see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). However, residents of Israel who receive U.S. or Canadian dollars, sterling, Swiss francs, or deutsche mark from inheritances and legacies, life insurance, pensions, rentals, and personal compensations, or from the liquidation of property abroad, are permitted to retain 20 per cent of the exchange in PAMAZ Trans- fer accounts (a third type of foreign exchange account). Holders of these accounts may use them for certain purposes for themselves or for their immediate families without prior approval. Holders of PAZAK accounts or debentures in foreign currency are entitled to sell up to 20 per cent of the accounts or securities and acquire instead PAMAZ 3 However, discounts are applied to the exchange proceeds of exports to Brazil (15 per cent), Turkey (30 per cent), Yugoslavia (13 per cent), and Argentina, Hungary, and Poland (10 per cent). 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Transfer accounts. For a period of two years after their entry into Israel, immigrants and foreign residents are exempt from surrendering their foreign currencies to the Treasury or depositing them in PAZAK accounts, and may keep such currencies in demand deposit accounts with authorized banks in Israel. Foreign currency received from appeals and charitable donations by institutions, organizations, funds, and similar bodies must be surrendered at the LB1.500 rate. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. The import of Israel banknotes is prohibited. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders*of Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) are permitted to draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£35 per day for themselves and a like amount for each member of their families, provided they have held the account for six months or more. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the official rate. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment can, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Invest- ments of March 29, 1950, which permits the repatriation of capital and transfers of earnings up to 10 per cent annually of the invested capital. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be trans- ferred, provided the total value of profits, interest, and repayment does not exceed 10 per cent of the total investment in any one year. How- ever, the rate of repatriation is limited to 7 per cent annually, if the investment is in a building project. In June 1955, an amendment to this law made the privileges more automatic and reduced taxation on new enterprises. Foreign investments effected in Israel without taking advantage of the 1950 law do not benefit from these transfer privileges. Payments that are due to nonresidents and are not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents have to be surrendered or may be kept in foreign exchange in time deposits (PAZAK accounts—see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above) or, in certain cases, 20 per cent may be retained in PAMAZ Transfer accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Alternatively, residents may purchase treas- ury promissory notes in foreign currency against dollars, sterling, or 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Swiss francs accruing to them from legacies, gifts, life insurance policies, liquidation of assets abroad, or restitution payments. The notes bear interest at 5 per cent, payable semiannually, and are redeemable in 15 years, though holders may demand repayment by giving 90 days' notice. Importers holding import licenses with allocation of foreign currency may, without giving the 90 days' prior notice, use the notes registered in their names for payments of the value of the foreign currency allocated to them. Payments will be effected at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of redemption or repayment. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are not permitted. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. The investment in securities quoted on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange of foreign capital in Blocked Accounts is, however, entirely free. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (Israel pounds per UJ3. dollar) Buying 1.260-1.620 (Official Rate less 10-30% Discount) Exports to certain countries, subject to discounts varying according to the country. 1.500 (Special Rate) Appeals and charitable donations. 1.800 (Official Rate) Most exports.4 All invisibles. Capital. Setting 0.450-1.450 (Official Rate with IM.360- 0350 Exchange Subsidy) A few imports, mainly essential goods. 1.800 (Official Rate) All other imports. Authorized invisi- bles. Capital. Note: Exchange premiums are also paid on a case-by-case basis for imports from certain countries for which export pro- ceeds are discounted. 4 Exports of certain industrial products receive premiums ranging from I£0.665 to I£0.700 per US$1, according to the currency received. These premiums are, how- ever, given only to the extent of the "net value added" (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Changes during 1956 February. Export premiums on certain industrial exports paid for in U.S. dollars, certain Western European currencies, Russian rubles, or Burmese kyats came into effect. The premiums ranged from I£0.665 to I£0.700 per US$1, according to the currency obtained. They were payable only on the "net value added" of exports, i.e., their value after deducting the foreign exchange components. February. Blocked Accounts held in Israel by Swiss residents and which had arisen from the surrender of old Israel banknotes were per- mitted to be designated as Blocked Accounts "B" rather than Regis- tered Accounts. This permitted these accounts to be used freely for certain specified purposes. March. New immigrants were no longer allowed to transfer capital in the form of goods purchased on the eve of their departure for Israel. They were permitted only to transfer goods on hand that were part of their stock if the value did not exceed US$3,500, if the stock was owned by the immigrant and arose directly from the liquidation of his business and was connected with the business he -had been in for at least three years prior to emigration, and if his main livelihood had been derived from that stock. March 1. It was announced that the Government had decided to discontinue the system of limiting the issuance of import licenses to traders with past trade connections. April 1. The amount of foreign currency that tourists leaving the country were allowed to repurchase, through authorized dealers, was increased from I£36 to I£72. April 26. A new trade and payments agreement was concluded with Brazil. July 18. A discount of 15 per cent was applied to exports settled through the Brazilian clearing account. September 1. Residents of Israel were permitted to retain in PAMAZ Transfer accounts 20 per cent of the hard currency received from certain transactions in invisibles, and to use such foreign exchange for certain specified purposes without prior approval. Holders of PAZAK accounts or debentures in foreign currency were allowed to sell up to 20 per cent of them and acquire instead PAMAZ Transfer accounts. December 15. The effective rate of exchange for books, magazines, newspapers, and records imported under the Informational Media Guaranty Program was changed from LE1.000 to I£1.400 per US$1. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY i Exchange Rate System No par value for the Italian Lira has been established with the Fund. Exchange rates are quoted for Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and for the various currencies in the multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement in operation among Austria (since January 2, 1957), Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Under this multilateral arbitrage arrangement, Italian authorized banks may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months7 delivery for transactions in French francs or with banks in France), with author- ized banks in any of the participating countries in any of their cur- rencies (except "free" currencies); the spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may deal in Canadian and U.S. dollars with banks in Canada and the United States. The rate for the U.S. dollar has remained between Lit 624 and Lit 625 per US$1 since September 1949. Italy participates with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in the multilateral arrangements with Argentina; and with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom in the multilateral arrangements with Brazil. Italian lire in the accounts of banks in Argentina and Brazil are exchangeable into the currencies of the other countries in the respective schemes. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not exercised over payments from the Italian Republic to the Republic of San Marino. There are special arrange- ments for payments between Italy and the territory of Somaliland under Italian administration. 1 In view of certain changes that took place in the exchange control system in the first two months of 1957 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the position as at February 20, 1957. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange, including those negotiated in the free market, pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Incoming and outgoing payments for transactions with countries in the dollar area 2 are made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, or through Foreign Accounts in Free Lire; settlements with EPU countries (except Greece, Portugal, and Turkey), and with Argen- tina and Brazil are made in the currencies in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements or through Foreign Accounts in Multilateral Lire (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Incoming and outgoing payments for transactions with countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements,3 and with Greece, Portugal, and Turkey, must be made according to the methods and in the currencies established by the agreements. Nonresident Accounts The main types of account in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks are described below. 1. Foreign (current) Accounts in Lire. These accounts are for cur- rent transactions. They are classified into three main subgroups: (a) Foreign Accounts in Free Lire may be held by a resident of any foreign country; (b) Foreign Accounts in Multilateral Lire may be held by residents of EPU countries (except Greece, Portugal, and Turkey), Argentina, and Brazil; and (c) Foreign Accounts in Bilat- eral Lire may be held by residents of Greece, Portugal, Turkey, and the bilateral agreement countries.3 Residents of this last group of countries and of other non-dollar countries may also open Foreign Accounts in Multilateral Lire, but such accounts may not be credited 2 Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, French Somaliland, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Philippine Republic, Syria, Tangier, Uruguay, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 3 Italy has bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY with payments by Italian residents that should be made through Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Lire. Balances on Foreign Accounts in Free and in Multilateral Lire are freely transferable from one account to another within the same group. Balances on Foreign Accounts in Free Lire are freely transferable to any other nonresident account, while balances on Foreign Accounts in Multilateral Lire may be transferred to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Lire, to Financial EPU Accounts, or to Financial Accounts related to "other countries" (see 2, below). In general, Foreign Accounts in Lire may be credited with amounts arising from permitted outward transfers, in particular with current payments. Balances on Foreign Accounts in Free and in Multilateral Lire may be used for investments in Italy. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts are for financial transactions. They are classified according to currency area into three subgroups: (a) Financial Dollar Area Accounts for residents of dollar area coun- tries; (b) Financial EPU Accounts for residents of EPU countries; and (c) Financial "Other Countries" Accounts for residents of non-dollar, non-EPU countries. Balances on Financial Accounts of subgroups (a) and (b) are freely transferable from one account to another within the same subgroup. Balances on Financial Dollar Area Accounts may be transferred to any other Financial Account. Balances on Financial EPU Accounts may be transferred to Financial Accounts related to "other countries." No transfers from a Financial Account to a Foreign (current) Account are allowed. Apart from permissible transfers from other accounts, Financial Accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign-owned personal property and real estate in Italy and with payments arising from the regulation of foreign-owned capital in Italy under the Regency Decrees of March 2, 1948 and February 7, 1956. Financial Accounts may be debited for investments, living and travel- ing expenses in Italy of the account holder and his family up to Lit 500,000 per month, payment of taxes, etc. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required for most imports from OEEC coun- tries and their associated territories, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Thailand, and Yemen. Imports from countries other than these and with which Italy has payments agreements are subject to the licensing system or to customs authorization in accordance with 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY the lists provided by the agreements. Most imports for which payment must be made in convertible currency are subject to license; however, for a wide range of dollar goods in a "List A," import licenses are granted automatically by authorized banks. Trade with those few countries with which no payments agreements exist is settled on a com- pensation basis (private compensations, global compensations, and transactions on a reciprocal basis). Imports from Finland, Paraguay, and Spain may be linked to exports to those countries. For all authorized imports, the exchange control authorities grant exchange or approve payment forthwith for the necessary amount and in accordance with the established methods of payment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles As a general rule, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses, which are issued by the exchange control authorities. Foreign ex- change is granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. For other types of expenditure, such as travel for business and tourism, health and education, patents and trademarks, and remittances of in- come on foreign-owned capital, the authorized banks are permitted to approve payments abroad up to specified limits. Favorable treatment is accorded to the remittance of earnings on investments in Italy in productive enterprises (see section on Capital, Below). Residents may send postal money orders for up to Lit 50,000 in any currency for any noncommercial purpose. As a rule, when the cost of insurance premiums is being met by Italian exporters or importers, payment to domestic or foreign insurance companies operating in Italy is in Italian lire. Insurance may be paid in free currency, multilateral currency, or a clearing currency, as the case may be, only for goods arriving in Italy or being sent out of Italy where the insurance has been stipulated by contractual agreement with an insurance company chosen by the seller or buyer abroad. Tourists traveling to dollar and EPU countries may obtain from the banks exchange up to the value of Lit 300,000 per person annually (Lit 500,000 will be provided for trips lasting more than 15 days). Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Lit 30,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities listed in a special table (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. This requirement is waived for a few commodi- 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY ties if they are paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars or free Swiss francs. Special credit facilities are provided to promote exports of special items. In addition, certain tax refunds are granted on a wide range of exported commodities; the funds for this purpose are made avail- able by imposing an "equalization tax/' ranging from 1 to 4 per cent, on certain import commodities. Licenses for exports to Finland, Para- guay, and Spain may require that such exports be linked to an equiva- lent value of imports from the respective country. Exchange receipts must be surrendered to an authorized bank within seven days of receipt. Current proceeds in convertible currencies and the currencies in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrange- ment may be retained by the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for a certain period. During this period, such balances may be utilized for permitted transactions or may be sold to other residents or to authorized banks. The banks are allowed to sell such balances to resi- dents for authorized transactions and to negotiate them freely with the Exchange Office or among themselves. After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same surrender require- ments as receipts from exports, except that shipping and insurance companies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts in free or multilateral currencies. Persons may bring in Italian banknotes in any amount. Capital In accordance with the provisions of Decree Law No. 43 of Febru- ary 7,1956, all restrictions on the repatriation of capital invested in the establishment or expansion of productive enterprises and on the trans- fer of income therefrom were abolished. For other investments, the capital may be repatriated after a minimum period of two years and the transfer of income is limited to 8 per cent. Any amounts which arise from investments that are not freely transferable abroad may be credited to Financial Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Investments abroad by residents are subject to approval, which is granted only when such investments are considered economically ad- 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY vantageous. Residents may be authorized to make investments abroad through the purchase of foreign banknotes in Italy. The export of securities is not permitted, except those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against freely con- vertible or multilateral currencies. Banknotes Residents are authorized to receive foreign banknotes from non- residents as gifts, or in payment for goods sold to and services rendered to tourists during their stay in Italy. Banknotes so acquired must be sold to an authorized bank within seven days. Authorized banks may deal among themselves or with the Italian Exchange Office in foreign banknotes, sell banknotes to residents traveling abroad or investing overseas, or export foreign banknotes for credit or for exchange into free or multilateral currencies. Changes during 1956 January 2. Payments to the dollar area for transactions in invisibles were liberalized; the authorized banks were empowered to approve many types of such transaction without reference to the central ex- change control authority. February 7. A new foreign investment law was introduced, which allowed a certain degree of freedom for the transfer of principal and earnings from capital invested in productive enterprises in Italy. Other investments remained subject to approximately the same treatment as that provided under the former investment law of 1948, except that the permissible annual rate of repatriation of earnings was raised from 6 per cent to 8 per cent. April 7. A number of commodities were added to the list of goods that could be imported from the dollar area free of quota limitations. May 1. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage scheme was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. June 1. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements between Brazil and Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Italian lire in accounts of banks in Brazil became exchangeable for the currency of any country in the scheme or could be transferred freely to Italian lira accounts related to any of these countries. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY June 6. A new law recodified the previous exchange control laws and regulations and permitted a free market in foreign banknotes. June 7. Annual travel allowances per person were increased from Lit 130,000 to Lit 300,000 (and up to Lit 500,000 in special cases) for travel in the EPU arid dollar areas. July 6. Austria was included in the multilateral arrangements with Brazil (see June 1, above). August 3. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements be- tween Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United King- dom. Italian lire in accounts of banks in Argentina became exchange- able for the currency of any country in the scheme (except the Austrian schilling, which was temporarily excluded) or could be transferred freely to Italian lira accounts related to any of these countries. August 17. A. special category of accounts was created for the pur- poses of the Investment Law of February 7, 1956. All transactions related to new investments may be effected through these accounts, thus making it easier for investors to prove that the provisions of the law have been complied with. September 3. As a result of the inclusion of France in the multi- lateral arrangements with Brazil (see June 1 and July 6, above), French francs could now be exchanged by banks in Brazil for the other currencies in this scheme. October 1. Imports and exports of merchandise not requiring an import or export license and not exceeding Lit 250,000 would no longer require bank permission. December 31. It was announced that, effective January 2, 1957, Austrian schillings would be included in the Western European multi- lateral arbitrage arrangement. Note. In early 1957, the following changes were made in the group- ing of foreign countries in the Italian exchange control regulations: On January 2, Austria was added to the multilateral lire group and, with Argentina, was deleted from the list of bilateral lire countries. On February 20, Chile, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Nicaragua, and the Philippine Republic were added to the free lire group. In addition, residents of any non-dollar country were allowed to open Foreign Accounts in Multilateral Lire, but these accounts may not be credited with payments by Italian residents that should be made through Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Lire. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Japanese Yen 360 = US$1. The official rates of authorized banks for telegraphic transfers are ¥ 359.20 buying, ¥ 360.80 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates are uniform. Administration of Control A Ministerial Council whose main function is the drafting of ex- change budgets is the highest control authority on the policy level. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry carries out exchange and trade control policy in respect of merchandise transactions, while the Ministry of Finance —through its Foreign Exchange Bureau and the Foreign Exchange Council—does so in respect of prescription of currency and method of settlement, the operation of the foreign exchange fund, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Ministry of Finance also has the func- tion of determining exchange rates. The Bank of Japan, as the Govern- ment's agent, executes the above functions in part. Authorized banks carry out the controls on the technical administrative level. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are made in accordance with the following prescription of currency re- quirements: (1) With Sterling Area countries, settlements are made in sterling. (2) With countries in Specified Area A (Argentina, Austria, Mainland China, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway, the Portuguese Monetary Area, the Sudan, Thailand, Uruguay, the U.S.S.R., Yugo- slavia, and Eastern European countries), outward payments m a y / be made only in sterling, while incoming payments may be received either in U.S. dollars or in sterling, except that payments from Mainland China may be received only in sterling. (3) With countries in Specified Area B (the Federal Republic of Germany, France, and Sweden), set- tlements may be made in the currency of the country concerned, in sterling, or in other currencies mutually agreed. (4) With countries in Specified Area C (Canada and Switzerland), both inward and outward payments may be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in U.S. dollars. (5) With countries with which Japan has bilateral payments agreements (Brazil, China (Taiwan), Egypt, Greece, Indo- nesia, the Republic of Korea, the Netherlands Monetary Area, the Philippine Republic, and Turkey), all settlements must be made through bilateral accounts, called "open accounts"; however, incoming 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN payments from these countries (except Egypt and the Philippine Republic) may also be received in sterling. (6) With all other coun- tries, settlements are made in U.S. dollars. Incoming payments from the countries listed under (1), (3), and (5), above, may also be received partially or wholly in U.S. dollars if the authorities of the paying coun- try agree or such agreement is not required. Deviations from these pre- scription of currency requirements are subject to individual license from the control authorities. Nonresident Accounts 1. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Nonresidents may be author- ized individually to keep Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Debits to these accounts for the personal needs of the account holder or for certain payments in yen without compensation to a resident or to a nonresident are authorized freely. Debits to these accounts for con- version into foreign currency require individual licenses. 2. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. As a measure to facilitate the application of exchange control, specified nonresidents are authorized to keep deposit accounts in U.S. dollars with banks. (Specified residents, such as shipping companies, airlines, tourist serv- ices, insurance companies, and certain Japanese trading firms, also are authorized to keep Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts in U.S. dol- lars, sterling, or other designated currencies.) 3. Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Certain proceeds of for- eigners' liquidated investments may be put in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports are subject to individual import license and, where payment is to be made, to registration with an authorized bank ("bank certification") for prescription of currency purposes. Import licenses are granted rather freely for certain types of goods, e.g., food- stuffs, basic raw materials, and specified machinery and equipment. Most of the authorized imports are planned in the exchange budget and communicated through Import Announcements. Authorized im- ports that are not listed in the Import Announcements are such items as imports through compensation arrangements or under the Special Foreign Exchange Allocation System (retention quota). Other imports authorized outside the above arrangements include those not requiring payment and goods imported for processing and re-export. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN There are three different licensing procedures: (1) Under the ex- change allocation system (covering imports of foodstuffs, raw mate- rials, and other essentials), the importer must first obtain from the trade control authorities an allocation of foreign exchange appropriate to the designated sources of the imports. If the allocation is granted, the importer receives an exchange allocation certificate which entitles him to receive import licenses from a foreign exchange bank auto- matically upon application. (2) Under the global quota system, the same procedure as described above is followed, except that the exchange allocation certificates for imports are issued by the trade control authorities on a global quota basis, that is, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (3) Under the auto- matic approval system, licenses for specified commodities are issued freely on application, provided that the total amount appropriated for the system in the exchange budget has not been reached. In practice, however, additional amounts are provided after the original appropri- ation "is exhausted. There are no quantitative limitations on indi- vidual commodities importable under this system. Licenses for imports under the exchange allocation system or the automatic approval system are issued by authorized banks, but when the proposed payments are not in accordance with the prescribed methods of settlement, such imports require prior approval of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Licenses for imports without exchange are issued by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. As a general rule, applicants for import licenses must make a deposit, which is calculated by multiplying the value of the intended import by a coefficient that differs for various categories of goods and for various currency areas or countries of origin. The deposit is returned after the goods have been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. Payments for Invisibles Contracts for specified services are subject to individual license, e.g., services between residents giving rise to foreign claimable assets, and services between residents and nonresidents when payment is to be effected by a nonstandard method or over a period longer than three months. Payments for invisibles are subject to individual license; how- ever, payments considered as part of a transaction that has been authorized may be effected freely. Payments on account of costs inci- dental to authorized imports and exports and specified categories of transfers —e.g., those in connection with insurance and shipping —are 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN permitted freely. Residents may take out of Japan ¥ 2,000 in Japanese currency to be spent only on Japanese ships or on Japanese aircraft. Applications to take larger amounts are considered on a case-to-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to registration with an authorized bank ("bank certification") in order to enforce the requirements concerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds. The following exports are subject to individual license: (1) goods in short supply in the domestic market, (2) strategic materials, (3) imported goods, (4) goods on the list of prohibited exports, (5) gold or gold alloy in bullion form, and (6) goods exported by transshipment or under con- signment, processing, or compensation contracts. Export proceeds have to be surrendered within ten days from the date of acquisition. Under the Special Foreign Exchange Allocation System, exporters are entitled to receive, through simplified procedures, allocations of foreign exchange of up to 3 per cent (as from January 1, 1957) of the export proceeds surrendered, for specified imports and other foreign payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts by the standard methods of settlement may be accepted without a license. However, contracts for specified services are subject to individual license, e.g., services between residents giving rise to foreign claimable assets, and services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method. Exchange receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. Residents may bring into Japan in Japanese currency any unspent balance of the amount which they legally took out. Otherwise, the import of Japanese cur- rency by residents or nonresidents is prohibited. Capital In accordance with Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950, foreign invest- ments in Japan are subject to approval if a guarantee for remittance of income or principal is desired. Consequently, all purchases of stocks, debentures, and investment trust certificates by foreign in- vestors a,re subject to individual license if remittance of income or principal is desired. Such purchases must be effected against the yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from sales of stocks, dividends, and receipts from technological assistance contracts may be reinvested, but not proceeds from sales of debentures before maturity. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Transfers abroad of earnings on foreign investments, and of up to 20 per cent of the value of such an investment in any one year, are permitted. The proceeds of liquidated investments may be transferred abroad two years after the investment is made; for stocks purchased with proceeds from the sale of other stocks, the two-year period runs from the date of the last purchase. In the event of capital loss, only the actual proceeds may be remitted. For debentures, the principal may be entirely remitted at maturity only. Principal on investment trust cer- tificates may be remitted after their redemption in five equal annual installments. Purchase rights on stocks may be sold if the issuing company gives its consent, or the value of the rights can be realized by selling the stocks with rights and purchasing the same stocks without rights or purchasing other stocks. (This constitutes a preferential treatment of foreign investors, since under the Japanese commercial code stock purchase rights may not be sold.) All other capital transactions and transfers having an exchange control aspect are subject to individual license, except that no license is required for foreign investments in Japan if remittance of income or principal is not desired. Capital transfers abroad and foreign investments by residents are subject to approval, which may be given if such investments are recog- nized as necessary for balance of payments reasons. Imports and exports of securities are subject to approval. Changes during 1956 January 14. In accordance with a new agreement with Italy, the open account was closed and trade and other transactions between the two countries were placed on a cash basis. January 20. Certain Japanese trading firms were authorized to hold foreign exchange on their own account to be used freely as operating funds for their branches and locally incorporated affiliates abroad. February 6. The export licensing procedures and the standard settle- ment terms were simplified for exports to Canada and to countries 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN in Central and South America (excluding open account countries) of goods not exceeding US$5,000, Can$5,000, or £1,800. April 1. Certain Japanese trading firms were authorized to keep interoffice accounts with their overseas branches and/or affiliates and to make debit and credit entries for specified invisibles related to trade. April 14. In accordance with a new trade agreement signed with Sweden, the open account was closed and trade and other transactions between the two countries were to be effected in Swedish kronor, in transferable sterling, or in other mutually agreed currencies. April 16. A new trade agreement with Thailand was signed which provided for the termination of the open account arrangements and the use instead of U.S. dollars, sterling, or other mutually agreed cur- rencies. April 24. A number of items were added to the list of imports subject to the automatic approval system. August 16. The use of Letters of Undertaking and Authorization issued by the Ministry of Finance to its depositories to guarantee the transactions of Japanese foreign exchange banks was discontinued. September 10. The exchange banks were permitted to quote deutsche mark and Swedish kronor within 1 per cent margins on either side of parity, and to quote Canadian dollars and Swiss francs within 1 per cent on either side of the rates announced by the Bank of Japan as agent of the Ministry of Finance. October 1. Transactions between Japan and Argentina were to be settled in transferable sterling. October 2. The standard method of settlement was revised as fol- lows: (1) Settlements for exports without a letter of credit on the basis of documents against payment or documents against acceptance, which had already been recognized as the standard method of settlement, although within strict limits, became more generally applicable. These terms would now apply to exports valued at up to US$10,000 or £3,600, or the equivalent, to most European countries, Iran, Iraq, and some others. (2) Exportation on landed weight terms for specified cate- gories was also recognized as a standard method of settlement. (3) With the exception of settlements with Egypt and the Philippine Republic, sterling became a standard method of settlement for incoming pay- ments from all open account countries. October 28. The standard method of settlement for transactions with Uruguay was changed. Uruguay, which originally belonged to the 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN U.S. dollar area in the Japanese regulations, was shifted to Specified Area A. Incoming payments were to be received either in U.S. dollars or in sterling, and outward payments were to be made only in sterling. October 30. Nationals of the United States and 12 other countries were permitted to use their balances on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts, with some exceptions, to purchase old shares of Japanese companies not specifically excluded in the Japanese regulations. November 2. It was announced that, effective January 1, 1957, the percentage of export proceeds which exporters are entitled to receive as a foreign exchange allocation under the Special Foreign Exchange Allocation System—to use for specified imports and other foreign pay- ments—would be reduced from 5 per cent to 3 per cent, and the period of permissible utilization would be reduced from seven months to three months. November 14. The list of goods that require export licenses from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry was revised to agree with the existing trade situation. The "first come, first served" import pro- cedure was abolished, and the time limit for settlements for imports listed in the Import Announcements was discontinued. A number of simplifications of export and import licensing procedures were intro- duced; e.g., for processing, consignment, or compensation deals, a license for the contract would be the only requirement for the export and/or import of related items and the allocation of necessary foreign exchange. December 10. Notes were exchanged with Finland which provided for the termination of the existing bilateral arrangements and a shift to a transferable sterling basis on April 1, 1957. December 27. A new payments agreement was signed with France which provided for the termination of the open account arrangements on January 1, 1957 and for the substitution of settlements in trans- ferable French francs and sterling. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value of the Jordan Dinar is JD 1 = US$2.80. The official rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. There are two exchange markets in Jordaln, one pri- marily for transactions in non-Arab League currencies and the other for transactions in Arab League currencies.1 Official rates are applied in the former, while in the latter, rates fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand. There is no legal free market for U.S. dollars in Jordan. A tax of % of 1 per cent is levied on sales of exchange for transactions in invisibles, whether payment is made at the official or the free rate. Fees of 4 per cent for goods paid at the official rate and % of 1 per cent for goods paid at the free market rate are payable on import licenses. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Con- troller of Currency. Import policy and programming is formulated by an Import Committee, which is composed of the Controller of Imports, the Undersecretaries for National Economy and for Customs, the Eco- nomic Adviser to the Ministry of National Economy, the Controller of Currency, and the Director of Income Tax. The regulations of the Import Committee are carried out by the Controller of the Import Department of the Ministry of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions for which exchange at official rates is provided must in general be paid for in a currency prescribed on the individual import license, according to the country of origin. Export proceeds must be surrendered, where required, in a currency appropriate to the country of destination. "Prescribed currency" includes the payment of sterling to or from an account in the United Kingdom appropriate to the coun- try concerned. Most trade involving official exchange is financed through such accounts. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is one of the countries in the Sterling Area. 1 The members of the Arab League are Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. The currencies most concerned here, however, are those of Lebanon and Syria. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts designated in accordance with Sterling Area practice, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Currency. These accounts must be fed by appropri- ate funds. The approval of the Controller of Currency is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers to residents of hard currency countries from any other nonresident account. All other transfers between non- resident accounts and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all goods except certain perishables from neighboring Arab states. Licenses are granted under two pro- grams: (1) The Primary Program covers mainly essential goods. Foreign exchange is provided at the official rate and a fee of 4 per cent is payable on the import license. (2) The Secondary Program covers less essential goods, which are paid for in Arab League currencies at free market rates. A fee of % of 1 per cent is payable on the import license. Import licenses for goods included in the Primary Program and pay- able in hard currencies are not granted for commodities that may be imported on the same terms from soft currency countries. Licenses for Arab League commodities are valid for 4 months and those for non-Arab League commodities for 6 months. For the latter, the importer must open a letter of credit within 45 days of the date of issuance of the license and must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. If the importer chooses to pay against documents, the requirement that he open a letter of credit is dispensed with, provided the goods are shipped within 3 months of the date of issuance of the license. Imports of certain goods from any source are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments to countries outside the Arab League are approved at the official rate in the currency of the country to which payment is due or in sterling. Payments to Arab League countries are approved at the free rate in the currency of the country concerned, except that remittances for educational expenses in Arab League countries are granted in ster- ling. A tax of 1/2 of 1 per cent is levied on payments for all invisibles 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM except education. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted: income of nonresidents, savings up to JD 5,000 of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries, remit- tances to refugee dependents, living expenses of Jordan nationals abroad, travel expenses of Jordan residents abroad, expenditures for education, expenses of medical treatment, business expenses abroad, and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. The policy in authorizing these payments is, in general, not discriminatory. In respect of certain items, however, limits have been established. Thus, for travel to Europe the allowance is UK£150 per month for a period of one month in any one year; larger allowances are approved for travel to the United States. No allowance is given for travel to Syria and Lebanon, but residents of Jordan and nationals of Lebanon and Syria traveling to these two countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jordan banknotes. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 5 in Jordan banknotes. Persons leaving Jordan for any desti- nation may take out the equivalent of JD 10 in foreign banknotes and any amount of such notes previously brought into the country by them. Up to JD 5 per person per month may be sent by postal or money order to other Arab League countries. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, export proceeds exceeding JD 20 must be surrendered to the authorized banks in the currency of the country to which the export is made: such proceeds have to be surrendered at the free market rate if in an Arab League currency and at the official rate if in any other cur- rency. Proceeds from exports of vegetables, fruits, and other perishable commodities are exempt from this requirement on the understanding that the proceeds will be used to pay for imports from the Arab League states. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the banks in the appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Residents of Jordan and nationals of Lebanon and Syria entering Jordan from Lebanon or Syria may bring in a maximum of JD 100 in Jordan banknotes; otherwise, the limit is JD 5. All persons may bring in any amount in foreign currencies. Capital Capital may be imported freely. Capital exports require approval. Current income arising from nonresident investments in Jordan may be 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEM1TE KINGDOM transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Investment, effective May 1, 1955, profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted regularly in the currency of the original investment without any limitation. After one year, the repatri- ation of capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same foreign exchange as the original investment. The Government may approve more liberal provisions upon application. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are subject to approval. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (U.S. dollars per dinar) 2.82 Buying (Official Rate) Exports to non-Arab League countries of phosphates, etc. Some invisibles. 2.588 (Free Market Rate) All other exchange receipts. Selling 2.78 2 (Official Rate) Government payments. Imports author- ized at the official rate in non-Arab League currencies. 2.765 ($2.78 with %% Tax) Invisibles authorized at the official rate in non-Arab League curencies. 2.588 2 (Free Market Rate) All imports authorized in Arab League currencies. 2.575 (Free Market Rate with %% Tax) Invisibles authorized in Arab League currencies. Changes during 1956 January 1. The tax of 2 per cent levied on all payments for invisibles was reduced to % of 1 per cent. February 12. License fees were reduced from 5 per cent to 4 per cent for imports under the Primary Program and from 2 per cent to % of 1 per cent for imports under the Secondary Program. November 3. The issuance of import licenses for goods from France and French colonies and protectorates was suspended. All such import licenses outstanding were canceled, unless the holders of the licenses had already established documentary letters of credit. 2 This selling rate does not include the fees payable on all import licenses (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Korean Hwan. The official rate is 500 hwan = US$1. The official rate applies to all transactions, with the exception of the following U.S. aid items: investment goods for nonrevenue-produeing projects, to which differential exchange rates or subsidies apply; and relief supplies, to which various rates apply, depending on the commodity. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Korea (the central bank), which is the only authorized exchange bank in Korea and through which all exchange transactions must pass. Exchange control regulations are issued by the Monetary Board of the Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Certain imports and exports must be approved by appropriate ministries. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, sterling, or in a currency authorized by the Monetary Board of the Bank of Korea. Imports and Import Payments Imports listed by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may be imported without license, the only procedure necessary being the open- ing of a letter of credit. Certain imports on the import lists are subject to the approval of the appropriate ministry. Commodities not listed on the import lists require the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. Imports are classified in two categories—ordinary imports and special imports. Ordinary imports may be imported either with foreign exchange purchased from the Government or with export earnings. Special imports may be imported only with foreign exchange earned from exports or with dollar receipts from United Nations Forces. Dollars secured from exports to the "open account area" (Japan) may be used only for imports from that area. Imports of rice, barley, and wheat flour are limited by quota. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Payments for Invisibles All remittances abroad, except by diplomats, require the approval of the Government. Subject to the approval of the Batok of Korea, foreigners residing in Korea may make payments abroad for invisibles (including tax payments and gifts to relatives), up to US$500, by drawing checks on their accounts abroad. Persons holding General Accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below) may apply to the Ministry of Finance to utilize this exchange for business travel, if they have received a recommendation from the Bank of Korea. Gen- eral Accounts may be used to purchase hwan to pay wages or salaries to foreign employees, who may remit overseas from these accounts sub- ject to checking by the Ministry of Finance. The remittance of profits is not permitted. Departing foreigners may exchange hwan for dollars up to US$100. The export of foreign means of payment is prohibited by military order. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain specified goods—such as tobacco, raw cotton, raw hides, precious metals and their ores, certain minerals and chemicals, pulp and lumber, machinery —and exports to communist countries are prohibited. Certain other goods may be exported only under the authorization of the ministry concerned. The foreign exchange proceeds of exports must be deposited in a foreign exchange Import Account in the Bank of Korea. Import Accounts are credited with foreign exchange accruing from (1) exports of goods and services; (2) sales of goods to the Republic of Korea Army, if payment is received from U.S. aid funds; (3) purchases, to pay for imports, of foreign currency holdings from the Government of Korea by private parties; (4) sales of gold and silver to the Bank of Korea, as authorized by the Monetary Board; and (5) sales of goods and services to the United Nations Forces by persons or firms in Korea. (When United Nations Forces make contracts with local sup- pliers for goods and services, the local supplier must obtain the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The supplier may then be paid in dollars, which must be sold to the Bank of Korea or deposited in an Import Account.) Exchange in Import Accounts may be sold to the Bank of Korea or used to pay for imports, for incidental costs of imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), and for other approved purposes. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Proceeds from Invisibles The proceeds derived from such invisibles as services to foreign countries, or to United Nations Forces or U.S. Government agencies in Korea, must be either sold to the Bank of Korea or deposited with the Bank in an Import Account. Foreign exchange derived from other invisibles must be either sold to the Bank of Korea or deposited in a General Account, but such deposits may be disposed of only in accord- ance with existing regulations (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Foreign exchange reported upon entering the country or sent from overseas is credited to a General Account. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Changes during 1956 January 5. Exchange obtained from the sale of goods to the Republic of Korea Army had to be deposited in Import Accounts in the Bank of Korea, if the payment was made from U.S. aid funds. February 1. The exchange rate for imports of fertilizers was changed from 250 hwan to 500 hwan per US$1. May 3. Regulations governing the use and sale of foreign exchange accruing from U.S. procurement in Korea for support of Republic of Korea Forces were issued. Such exchange must be used for the import of specified goods within 30 days of its deposit with the Bank of Korea. Any exchange not used within this period would be purchased by the Bank with or without the consent of the depositor. June 30. The rate of 200 hwan per US$1 for imports of coal of U.S. origin was discontinued. August 24. Fresh fish, fruits, movies, and silica could be exported in advance on a barter basis. September 15. Fresh fish was added to the list of restricted exports, except for those shipments for which letters of credit had been received prior to this date, or those which had been exported in advance on a barter basis prior to this date. September 20. Foreign exchange obtained in exchange for hwan by airline, shipping, or insurance companies, or other organizations desig- nated by the Government under the "Regulations Governing Authori- 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF zations for General Monetary Conversion," was included among the items that could be deposited in General Accounts with the Bank of Korea. November 15. The regulations governing the use and sale of foreign exchange accruing from U.S. procurement in Korea for support of Republic of Korea Forces (see May 3, above) were amended to provide that, where the amounts of foreign exchange to be sold were less than US$100,000, the date of the first sale could be postponed to January 10, 1957. In such event, the date of the second sale could be no later than six months after the first sale. This supplementary regulation was made retroactive to May 3, 1956. November 15. Regulations were issued governing gold purchases by the Bank of Korea with foreign exchange. The buying price was fixed at US$1.12 per one gram of gold, but the seller has the alternative of being paid the hwan equivalent of U.S. dollars calculated at the official rate of exchange. However, only those persons presenting a certificate from the Minister of Commerce and Industry or the Changhong Refinery stating that the gold is newly produced may sell gold to the Bank of Korea. December 7. It was announced that imports of rice, barley, and wheat flour up to certain amounts would be permitted during the period December 7, 1956 to June 30, 1957. December 29. Foreign exchange authorized by the Government was included among the items that may be deposited in General Accounts with the Bank of Korea. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System The par value is Lebanese Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. However, all transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1956 were LL 3.20}4 buying, LL 3.20% selling, per US$1. As a rule, the free market dollar rate is prevented from appreci- ating beyond LL 3.20 per US$1. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are attached to exchange payments or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain coun- tries,1 with which Lebanon has concluded payments agreements speci- fying the method or channel of payment, may be made through specific accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (apples, citrus fruits, dangerous drugs, etc.) are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities that are for the most part produced locally are subject to license. All other imports may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports is obtained freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles may be obtained freely through the free market or payment may be made freely in local currency to any account. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of cast iron, copper, lead, and tin) are prohibited. Export licensing is applied to only a few items, such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, jute goods, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, cement, caustic soda, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals. All products intended for export to Mainland China or North Korea are subject to export license. There are no surrender require- ments attached to exchange receipts from exports, which may be re- tained, used, or freely solS in the free market. 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Egypt, East Germany, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements attached to exchange receipts from invisibles, which may be retained, used, or freely sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts, and ex- change in respect of capital movements may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Changes during 1956 January 4. A trade and payments agreement was concluded with Poland. January 6. A trade and payments agreement was concluded with Rumania. March 9. Imports of false jewelry were freed from all restrictions. May 19. The export of gold coins and gold bars and their passage in transit through Lebanon were freed from all restrictions. June 6. Imports of cottonseed oil were made subject to license. November 2. Exports of silk cocoons, natural silk yarn, sulphur, hay, and barley were made subject to license. November 4. Exports of all foodstuffs were made subject to license. (Subsequently, some of these exports were freed—see December 21, below.) November 20. Imports of silkworm eggs, coffee, and rice were made subject to license. December 21. Export license restrictions on foodstuffs were limited to livestock, samneh (cooking butter), wheat and wheat products, bar- ley, peeled cereals, cottonseed oil, olive oil, hydrogenated oils and fats, sugar, and coffee. Imports of coffee and rice were no longer subject to license. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.80 = US$1. The official rates are f. 3.77 buying, f. 3.83 selling, per US$1. Basically, exchange transactions are effected at un iform rates based on the par value. For Canadian and U.S. dollars, sterling, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, free Swiss francs, Swiss "agreement francs," and for Japanese and Turkish "agreement dollars," spot and forward exchange markets have been established. Authorized banks are allowed to conclude both spot and forward transactions in these cur- rencies against guilders, in the Amsterdam exchange market and, 'ex- cept for the "agreement dollars," with banks in the country of the currency concerned. Spot transactions take place at rates within a fixed spread of 1 per cent on either side of parity. Forward transactions with residents must be based on permitted merchandise or service transactions. The Netherlands participates with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multi- lateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which author- ized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and for- ward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with French banks), with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. These currencies may also be bought and sold by banks in the Trans- ferable Guilder Area (see section on Prescription of Currency, below), and in Argentina (except for deutsche ma rk ), against their guilder accounts held with Netherlands authorized banks. Authorized banks in the Netherlands are also permitted to conclude, multilaterally with banks abroad, spot transactions and forward trans- actions for up to six months' delivery in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and free Swiss francs). Special arrangements apply to exchange related to certain countries or in certain currencies, as follows: (1) Egyptian pounds are traded in a spot market without official buying or selling rates, as well as in a 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS free forward market; (2) Belgian and Luxembourg francs in Finan- cial Accounts (see section on Capital, below) are traded in a spot market at free rates that are, in practice, very close to the official rates. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands overseas territories (the Netherlands Antilles, New Guinea, and Surinam) are subject to ex- change control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force, the Netherlands and its overseas terri- tories constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. The Republic of Indonesia participates in several of the Netherlands' payments agree- ments, in particular with EPU countries, and in those cases it also con- stitutes a part of the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Overseas Territories, Finance, Eco- nomic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import licensing and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and its delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Sixty-six authorized banks are permitted to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must always be made through an authorized bank, either to the credit of a trans- ferable nonresident guilder account held by a foreign bank with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's holdings abroad of the currency concerned. Such payments to nonresidents must be made in accordance with the prescriptions of Foreign Exchange Notice 1/53 (unless approval has been given to make the payments in another way ), viz., (1) where a two-account payments agreement is in force, either in guilders from a nonresident account related to the partner country or in the partner country's currency; (2) for a single-account agreement, in the currency of the agreement; (3) in transactions with the United States and Canada, either by debit- ing an authorized bank's holdings of the respective currencies in the United States or Canada, or by crediting a Free Guilder Account or an appropriate transferable guilder account (American or Canadian 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Account) held by a U.S. or Canadian bank with an authorized bank; (4) for payments to a country in the Transferable Guilder Area,1 by the methods prescribed for any one of these countries; (5) for pay- ments to Argentina, in the currencies of Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, or by crediting guilders to Guilder Agreement Accounts of banks in these countries or in Argentina or to T Accounts related to Argentina; (6) for payments to Egypt, in Egyptian pounds for most commercial payments and in guilders for most other payments; (7) in all other cases, in the way indicated in the individual authorization, usually in U.S. dollars or transferable sterling. The prescription of currencies for exchange receipts is similar to that for exchange payments, but Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, and free Swiss francs are acceptable for all permitted payments by non- residents to Netherlands residents. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident account are given below. Apart from those described under 5, the accounts are designated, by the country of residence of the account holder. 1. Guilder Agreement Accounts. These accounts are in the names of banks abroad, and are applicable to Canada (Canadian Accounts), to the United States (American Accounts), to countries with which there are payments agreements providing for accounts in guilders and in the partner's currency or in guilders only,2 to Netherlands New Guinea, and to certain other countries that have been included in the Transfer- able Guilder Area. They are used for payments and receipts mainly on account of current transactions. Guilder Agreement Accounts are transferable to other Guilder Agreement Accounts of the same country or monetary area, but those related to countries in the Transferable Guilder Area are transferable to Guilder Agreement Accounts of any country in that Area. Balances on Guilder Agreement Accounts held under a two-account payments agreement are convertible into the cur- iThe Transferable Guilder Area comprises EPU countries (except Turkey), Afghanistan, Brazil, Chile, Ethiopia, Finland, Iran, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Tangier, Thailand, Uruguay, and Yemen. 2 Payments agreements of these types are in force with EPU countries (except Turkey) and their associated territories, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, Egypt, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Netherlands Antilles, Paraguay, Poland, Spain, Surinam, UJ3.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Payments agreements with the U.S. dollar as the agreement currency are in force with Japan and Turkey. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS rency of the country of the account holder, and balances on those related to countries in the Transferable Guilder Area are convertible into any currency in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement. 2. T Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents, regardless of nationality, except those who reside in Indonesia or those who hold E Accounts (see 6, below). They also are used for current transactions, and general licenses have been granted for current pay- ments from them to residents. Their use for capital transactions is prohibited unless the account holder resides or is domiciled in the Netherlands overseas territories or in certain dollar countries.3 T Accounts are transferable to other T Accounts of the same country or monetary area, and balances on them may be transferred to Guilder Agreement Accounts related to the same country or monetary area. Balances on T accounts related to certain dollar countries 3 are freely convertible into U.S. dollars through authorized banks. 3. N Accounts-Indonesia. These accounts apply only to nonresi- lents residing or domiciled in Indonesia, regardless of nationality. There are special regulations applicable to the crediting and debiting of these accounts. They may, however, be transferred freely to EPU countries. 4. K Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents, regardless of nationality, except those who reside in Indonesia. They are used primarily for investments, but may be debited for some cur- rent payments, including travel expenses in the Netherlands up to a daily maximum of f. 100 per person. K Accounts may be transferred to other K Accounts of the same country or monetary area; also, if held by residents of EPU countries, they may be transferred to T Accounts or transferred through a Guilder Agreement Account to the country of the account holder and, in general, to K Accounts of residents of other EPU countries. Balances on K Accounts held by nonresidents in cer- tain dollar countries 3 may be repatriated by purchasing "security dol- lars." K Accounts are classified in two groups, as follows: (a) K Accounts related to certain dollar countries 3 and EPU countries (except Belgium and Luxembourg—see (b) ( i), below); (b) K Accounts related to other countries; these are subclassified as (i) exportable—the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of securities imported after May 5, 1945, of securities paid for 3 Canada, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, United States, and Venezuela. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS in convertible currencies, or of securities acquired out of securities in either of the foregoing categories, as well as K Accounts related to Belgium and Luxembourg not acquired by conversion of francs in Financial Accounts—or (ii) nonexportable—all other capital proceeds not eligible for credit to an exportable K Account. Netherlands and Indonesian securities, as well as foreign securities denominated exclusively in guilders, which are purchased to the debit of K Accounts related to the countries mentioned under (a) and of K Accounts described under (b) (i) may be exported. 5. Free Guilder Accounts. These accounts are available to all non- residents. They may be credited with the proceeds in guilders of gold sold by nonresidents to the Netherlands Bank and of Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, and free Swiss francs sold to the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. They may, moreover, be credited as follows: with transfers from other Free Guilder Accounts, Canadian Accounts, or American Accounts; with amounts authorized to be credited to Canadian'or American Accounts; and with amounts authorized to be debited to authorized banks7 accounts in Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, or free Swiss francs. Free Guilder Accounts may be debited for trans- fers to other Free Guilder Accounts, Guilder Agreement Accounts, and other guilder accounts of nonresidents. They may also be used for all payments within the Netherlands authorized to be made to the debit of an American Account, for the purchase of any foreign exchange by a nonresident, and for making available Netherlands banknotes and treasury notes to the account holder or other nonresidents. 6. E Accounts. These are transitional accounts held by emigrants from the Netherlands after their departure. On establishing residence abroad, emigrants may, on application, have their balances on E Accounts transferred to K Accounts, and T Accounts may be opened in their name. 7. Z Accounts (residual group). These accounts are those to which sums of doubtful origin have been credited. The debiting or crediting of Z Accounts is only permitted if expressly allowed by a Foreign Exchange Notice or a general or special license. Imports and Import Payments For liberalized goods (except certain agricultural products) im- ported from OEEC countries (except Turkey) and their associated areas, no import licenses or declarations are required to clear the goods 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS through the customs, and payments may be made by virtue of an open general license (which is also applicable to nonliberalized commodi- ties) . The OEEC liberalization list also applies to Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Finland, Indonesia, the Netherlands Antilles, New Guinea, Surinam, and Uruguay, and licenses are issued automatically for liberalized goods imported from these countries. For imports from Indonesia and Turkey and imports of certain agricultural products from OEEC coun- tries (except Turkey), an import declaration must be completed by the importer if no import license is required. For practically all imports not exceeding f. 200, import and payment may be effected without documents. All other imports require combined import and exchange licenses, but these are issued automatically for imports of liberalized commodities from the dollar area.4 In principle, whenever an import and exchange license is obtained, or if no license is required, payment may be effected without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles exceeding f. 200 are subject to exchange license. However, payments for most categories of invisibles to non- dollar countries are permitted by general license and supporting docu- ments need not be submitted. Payments to dollar area countries for some categories of invisibles are permitted by general license up to any amount and for many other categories of invisibles are permitted up to f. 1,000 (supporting documents must be submitted). Applications for higher amounts are approved for bona fide transactions in invisibles. Tourist exchange, exclusive of the payment of fares, is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 1,000 per person per trip for travel to any country. This facility is also available for non- residents who are domiciled in Indonesia or any of the Netherlands overseas territories but are staying in the Netherlands temporarily. Residents traveling abroad who hold passports may take with them all foreign notes and negotiable instruments acquired in accordance with a general or special license and a maximum of f. 200 in domestic notes, which may be spent abroad. Nonresidents may, when leaving the Netherlands, export foreign banknotes and coins up to the equiva- 4 For this purpose, the dollar area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- duras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS lent of f. 4,000, or as much more as was declared at the time of entry, as well as f. 1,000 in Netherlands banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses or declarations are not required for a large num- ber of goods exported to OEEC countries (except Turkey) and their associated areas. However, for exports to the dollar area (see foot- note 4), Indonesia, or Turkey that do not require an export license, a declaration completed by the exporter is required. For goods valued at not more than f. 200, the export may be effected and payment received without documents, but the method of payment must be in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory; but if they are surrendered, it must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds is obligatory; they must be received in accordance with the prescription of currency, and may then be held in appropriate "foreign currency accounts" with authorized banks. The use of such funds is subject to the usual licensing requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to "foreign currency accounts." For settlement in guilders of incoming exchange exceeding f. 200 derived from current invisibles, the recipient must submit to an authorized bank a form "B" indicating the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the amount and currency received. The authorized banks must also verify that the underlying transaction comes within the scope of the cate- gories of transaction for which the Netherlands Bank permits payments to be received from the remitting country by the method chosen, but this verification is not required for receipts from Canada, Indonesia, the Netherlands Antilles, New Guinea, Surinam, or the United States. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands f. 1,000 in Netherlands banknotes and unlimited amounts in foreign banknotes and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank or an authorized exchange office or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign- owned capital within the Netherlands from one asset to another are 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS subject to control, but general licenses have been granted for many types of capital transaction. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely to the country of their residence by crediting the appropriate T Accounts or Guilder Agreement Accounts. Residents may buy foreign securities from, or sell them to, other residents. They may sfcll foreign securities abroad, either for U.S. dol- lars (not permissible for Belgian-Luxembourg securities) or for the currency in which payment of the principal or interest may be de- manded. The exchange so acquired must be deposited with an author- ized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or credited to an account denominated in the same foreign currency. Accounts of this type in which dollar proceeds are held are called "security dollar" accounts; all the others are called "reinvestment" accounts. These accounts may be credited also with capital repayments and similar items and used to make capital payments in the currencies concerned. Residents may buy foreign securities abroad with balances held abroad which cannot be transferred to the Netherlands owing to the foreign exchange regulations of the countries in which the balances are outstanding; real estate may also be bought to the debit of such balances. In addition, residents may purchase through authorized brokers foreign securities in EPU countries. These securities must be quoted officially and the principal and interest or dividends must be payable in an EPU currency, Canadian dollars, or U.S. dollars. Pay- ment for such purchases must be effected in an EPU currency. Under an arrangement between the Netherlands, Belgium, and Lux- embourg, all capital transactions between them are conducted through a free market in which practically all capital payments may be made either under a general license or by individual licenses granted auto- matically. These payments are made in the Netherlands through K Accounts in guilders, and in Belgium-Luxembourg through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs kept in the names of Nether- lands authorized banks and securities brokers. Residents of Belgium- Luxembourg and residents of the Netherlands may trade K Account guilders against Financial Account francs. Securities expressed in Netherlands guilders or in one of the currencies of the Belgian Mone- tary Area, as well as Indonesian securities, may be purchased and sold without restriction. Moreover, residents of Belgium-Luxembourg may purchase foreign securities from Netherlands residents to the debit of a K Account or to the credit of a Financial Account, with the exception of securities denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or Swiss francs, and U.S., Canadian, or Swiss securities of no par 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS value. Residents of other EPU countries may have the proceeds from the sale of capital invested in the Netherlands transferred to them through the normal payment channels.5 New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted only if made in convertible currencies, but there are special facilities for such investments by residents of Belgium-Luxem- bourg. Capital proceeds held by nonresidents in K Accounts may be reinvested in the Netherlands. The export of Netherlands securities and Indonesian securities, and of foreign securities denominated exclusively in guilders, is allowed insofar as (1) the owner resides in certain dollar countries (see foot- note 3) or an EPU country (Belgium-Luxembourg excepted for securi- ties tha t 'have been acquired by conversion of francs in a Financial Account); (2) the securities concerned have been imported into the Netherlands after May 5, 1945, or have been acquired by switching securities imported after that date; (3) the securities concerned have been paid for in convertible currency. In these three cases the securities are, on exportation, provided with "red documents." Emigrants are permitted to export on departure foreign exchange to the countervalue of f. 4,000 for an individual emigrant or for the head of a family, plus f. 2,000 for each member of the family, in addition to personal effects, and f. 25,000 for the establishment of a domicile and/or the independent exercise of a profession or trade. On departure from the Netherlands, their guilder funds are held in, E Accounts. On establishing residence abroad, emigrants may apply to have their E Accounts converted into K Accounts and to have their income credited to T Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Thus, as balances on K Accounts may be transferred to EPU countries, emi- grants to those countries may have all their capital transferred to their new country of residence; emigrants to dollar countries may have their capital transferred by purchasing "security dollars" to the debit of their K Accounts. Changes during 1956 January 2. The limit of f. 5,000 on freely permitted transfers for specified invisibles was removed, and this facility, previously appli- cable to payments to residents of most countries except Canada and the United States, was extended to cover payments to residents of all coun- 5 However, the regulations of Switzerland permit Swiss residents to receive capital from other EPU countries only through free exchange markets. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS tries except certain dollar countries (see footnote 3). Also, transfers were permitted freely for more types of transaction, and the pro- cedure for the payment of royalties to dollar countries was simplified. Residents were permitted to negotiate on a cash basis with other residents, including authorized banks, the Western European curren- cies in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement, at rates within the official limits. The facility by which balances on T Accounts related to certain dollar countries were convertible into U.S. dollars through authorized banks was extended to T Accounts related to Cuba and Haiti. Emigrants were enabled to obtain remittance of their capi- tal to EPU countries through K Accounts and to dollar countries through the purchase of "security dollars." January 14. Residents were allowed, through authorized brokers, to purchase freely, in EPU countries with EPU currencies, securities denominated in EPU currencies or in U.S. or Canadian dollars and quoted officially in the country of purchase. Previously, an individual license had been required for such a transaction. January 23. Authorized institutions (travel agencies) were permitted in the normal conduct of their business to buy from and sell to author- ized banks foreign notes and coins and means of payment both spot and for forward delivery up to 12 months. February 24. Residents were permitted to make gifts of amounts not exceeding f. 2,000 per beneficiary per calendar year to relatives up to the fourth degree of consanguinity residing abroad, by crediting either a K Account, an N Account, or an E Account, as appropriate. Non- residents were permitted to make gifts of unlimited amounts to resi- dents either by crediting U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or free Swiss francs to the account of a Netherlands authorized bank in the United States, Canada, or Switzerland, respectively, or by debiting guilders on their T Accounts related to a dollar area country, or their K, N, or E Accounts, or an American or Canadian Account. March 9. The exchange control procedure for the settlement of im- ports and exports was simplified for most transactions. The limit of f. 10,000 on the use of declarations completed by the importer or exporter for most liberalized imports and exports was removed. (Previ- ously, individual licenses had been required for all transactions exceed- ing f. 10,000.) March 28. Residents were permitted to sell to nonresidents—against repatriation of the proceeds—copyrights, film rights, and rights to reproduction of gramophone records, except where the rights had origi- nally been purchased with convertible currency. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS March 28. Authorized banks were permitted to buy Netherlands Treasury bills or bank acceptances in guilders, and to place guilder amounts at interest on fixed deposit for periods up to three months, for account of foreign banks and to the debit of the foreign banks' Ameri- can, Canadian, or Free Guilder Accounts. April 4. Authorized stockbrokers were permitted to retain the con- vertible currency proceeds from sales of Netherlands securities or foreign securities expressed in guilders and use them for dollar pur- chases of securities. Previously, such proceeds had to be .surrendered to authorized banks and only dollar proceeds from sales of dollar securities by residents were available for dollar reinvestment. Residents were also permitted to sell all foreign securities—except Belgian- Luxembourg securities—for dollars, which were made available for reinvestment in dollar securities. Previously, such securities could be sold only for the currency in which the security was denominated. April 10. Special arrangements for handling exchange transactions were established to facilitate operations on behalf of nonresidents in the future markets in pepper in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. May 1. The distinction in security accounts and in K Accounts be- tween "exportable" and "nonexportable" was dropped for accounts related to EPU countries. In the case of Belgium-Luxembourg, how- ever, this did not apply insofar as the securities and K Accounts had been acquired by conversion of francs in Financial Accounts. May 1. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in the Western European multilateral arbitrage currencies was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. May 15. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements be- tween Brazil and Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The Italian lira was added to the currencies that could be exchanged for guilders in Brazilian accounts. May 18. The period permitted for forward transactions in Italian lire by authorized banks .in the Netherlands with banks in the Italian Monetary Area was extended from three months to six months. June 2. Authorized banks could deal with Netherlands residents in U.S. dollars for commercial purposes for periods of more than 12 months and up to a maximum of 48 months. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS July 1. The procedure for exporters and importers in trade with OEEC countries (except Turkey) was simplified further (see March 9, above), by dispensing with the need for the bank's and the customs' copies of an import or export license or declaration (except for agri- cultural and some other products). In addition, the use of declarations completed by importers or exporters where no import or export license was required now applied only to exports to the dollar area (see foot- note 4), to imports from and exports to Indonesia and Turkey, and to imports and exports of certain agricultural products from and to EPU countries (except Turkey). All imports payable in dollars continued to require an import license. Payments to and receipts from nonresi- dents which were permitted to be effected in the way prescribed for settlements with an EPU country (except Turkey) could be effected in the way prescribed for settlements with any other EPU country (except Turkey). July 2. Arrangements came into effect for multilateral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Guilders in Argentine accounts became exchangeable for the currencies of any of the countries participating in these arrange- ments or could be transferred freely to Guilder Agreement Accounts related to any of these countries; the currencies of any of the partici- pating countries could be used to augment Argentine accounts, and guilders in Guilder Agreement Accounts related to any of these coun- tries could be transferred freely to Argentine accounts. The clearing account in U.S. dollars with Argentina was liquidated and all payments to and from Argentina were to be made either in guilders by crediting or debiting Argentine guilder accounts or in one of the currencies of the countries in the arrangements. July 9. A Transferable Guilder Area was established. Guilders could be transferred freely between the Guilder Agreement Accounts of banks in the following countries: EPU countries (except Turkey), Afghanistan, Brazil, Chile, Ethiopia, Finland, Iran, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Tangier, Thailand, and Yemen. Authorized banks in the Netherlands were permitted to deal in spot transactions with banks in these countries in any of the currencies included in the Western European multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement. July 20. Free Swiss francs held with a bank in Switzerland were made acceptable for the settlement of any permitted payment by a nonresident to a resident. Previously, this had applied only to U.S. and Canadian dollars. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS August 7. Settlements with nonresidents which were permitted to be effected in the way prescribed for settlement with a country in the Transferable Guilder Area could be made in the way prescribed for settlement with any other country in the Transferable Guilder Area. Previously, this facility extended only to the prescription for settle- ments with EPU countries other than Turkey (see July 1, above). Authorized banks were permitted to transfer balances on Brazilian T Accounts to Guilder Agreement Accounts related to a bank in any country in the Transferable Guilder Area, and to sell to residents of Brazil currencies included in the Western European multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, to the debit of their Braz i l ian T Accounts. August 13. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements with Argentina (see July 2, above). The Italian lira was added to the currencies that could be exchanged for guilders in Argentine accounts, including Argentine T Accounts. September 25. Authorized banks could conclude forward exchange transactions with Netherlands residents in Canadian and U.S. dollars, free Swiss francs, and Western European multilateral arbitrage cur- rencies for commercial purposes for periods of more than 12 months and up to a maximum of 48 months. Previously, this facility was limited to transactions in U.S. dollars (see June 2, above). November 13. The facilities for paying debts due to nonresidents in countries other than certain dollar countries for most current transac- tions in invisibles without limitation as to the amount (see J anu a ry 2, above) were extended to additional types of transaction. November 19. Uruguay was included in the Transferable Guilder Area (see July 9, above.) December 29. It was announced that, effective January 2, 1957, authorized banks in Austria and Austrian schillings would be included in the Western European multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nicaraguan Cordobas 7.00 = US$1. The official rates are C$7.00 buying, C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to all exchange receipts other than from exports and to all authorized outgoing payments. A buying rate of C$6.60 per US$1 applies to the exchange proceeds of exports of all goods except cotton. The exchange rate for proceeds of cotton exports varies from C$6.60 to C$7.00 per US$1, depending on the price of cotton. A fluctuating free market for foreign notes and coins is used for travel and certain other transactions. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Issue Department of the National Bank of Nicaragua, which issues import and export permits and allocates import commodities to the established categories of essen- tial, semiessential, and nonessential goods, for the purpose of advance deposit requirements. All sales of exchange pass through the Issue Department and the Banking Department of the National Bank or through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency; incoming and outgoing pay- ments normally are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or prohibitions on imports. All imports are subject to license, but licenses are issued automatically and without delay. Three import categories have been established: List I (essential), List II (semiessential), and List III (nonessential). Before making an application to import, the importer must deposit in domestic currency 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports in List II and 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports in List III. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles at the official selling rate are subject to prior authorization, which is granted only for the following classes of payments: government payments, students' expenditures, insurance and reinsurance premiums, remittances on account of registered foreign investments and of registered foreign loans, and salaries and fees for 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA specialized services. Other invisibles are usually paid for through the free market. Domestic currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to a licensing procedure similar to that for imports, which serves to confirm that the prices at which the goods are exported are not lower than the minimum prices in foreign currency in world markets on the date of export and to ensure that all exchange receipts are surrendered at the appropriate rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from most invisibles must be surrendered at the C$7.00 rate. Domestic currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effec- tive March 11, 1955), foreign investments approved by the National Bank and registered are granted favorable treatment. Foreign invest- ments may be made in any form, and if in foreign exchange, the exchange must be surrendered. The registration of foreign capital is recorded in the currency of the country of origin. The law provides that exchange operations in respect of foreign investments are to be carried out at the exchange rate applicable to the essential import category on the day of the transaction. Visible imports for investment purposes are exempt from the prior deposit requirements. Foreign investments are granted the following privileges: free repatriation of the registered capital; free transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and free re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Profits not transferred abroad during the year following the year in which they were earned, and not registered as foreign capital, are treated as domestic capital. Remittances on account of foreign investments that were effected prior to March 11,1955, and that were registered under the Law for the Regulation of International Exchange of November 9,1950, are subject to individual approval by the Board of Directors of the Issue Depart- ment of the National Bank, with the limitation that remittances for profits or amortization may not exceed 10 per cent of the capital per year. Remittances on account of investments subject to special con- tracts signed with the Government are bound by the terms of the contract. Transfers of a capital nature by residents are not authorized. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Banknotes Foreign currency notes may be negotiated in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (cordobas per UJ5. dollar) Selling Buying 6.60 (Export Rate) All exports except cotton. 6.60-7.00 i Cotton exports. (Official Rate) Most invisibles. Registered capital. 7.00 7.50 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Foreign banknotes and coins. Changes during 1956 7.0525 (Official Rate) All imports. Government payments. Students' expenses. Insurance premiums. Registered capital. 7.60 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles, including travel. February 28. By Executive Decree No. 15 of February 24, 1956, the powers of the Board of Directors of the Issue Department of the National Bank of Nicaragua were extended to include the authoriza- tion of sales of foreign exchange for salaries and fees for the following specialized services contracted for with persons or institutions residing abroad: audits; technical advice to financial institutions and industrial enterprises; and payments to specialists whose activities are devoted exclusively to agricultural purposes or to others of similar importance. For payments to specialists, the foreign exchange granted may not exceed 50 per cent of the salary or fee of the person hired. June 16. All merchandise was reclassified for purposes of the prior deposits required on imports. Numerous items were moved from List I —for which no prior deposit is required —to List II, but the rate of deposit on List II imports was lowered from 75 per cent to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods to be imported. Merchandise formerly in List II was shifted to List III —for which a 100 per cent deposit is required. Only a few essential items were left in List I. July 20. Some imports (mainly goods used by the printing industry —e.g., newsprint, linotypes, presses, cutters) which had been moved in June from List I to List II were returned to List I. 1 The actual rate depends on the price of cotton (see section on Changes during 1956, December 1, below). 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA August 10. A few items (e.g., cellophane, empty capsules, cachets, glass containers and ampoules) which had been placed in List II in June were returned to List I. Certain chemicals and related products imported for the preparation of medicinal products by recognized pharmaceutical firms were moved from List III to List II. December 1. The exchange rate applicable to the proceeds from exports of cotton was altered. Until October 31, 1957, the rate of C$7.00 per US$1 would apply to foreign exchange from cotton of quality B-2 exported at a price equal to or less than US$31.00 per quintal (100 pounds), f.o.b. the port of exportation. (The rate for other qualities of cotton would be determined by their relationships to quality B-2.) For the proceeds of cotton exported at a price higher than US$31.00 per quintal, the rate would vary, depending on the price, from C$6.60 per US$1 when the price is US$0.35 a pound or more (based on middling ll/» inches) to C$7.00 per US$1 when the price is US$0.31 a pound or less. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. The official rates for telegraphic transfers are NKr 7.135 buying, NKr 7.150 selling, per US$1. Parity rates for other currencies are based on the par values agreed with the Fund. Norway participates with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Nether- lands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward trans- actions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for trans- actions in French francs or with French banks), with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the ex- change authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward pre- miums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may also deal in spot transactions in these curren- cies (except deutsche mark) against the krone accounts of banks in Argentina. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. All payments to and from nonresidents must be made through one of the Norwegian authorized banks or through the Bank of Norway. Generally, all payments require approval from either the Ministry of Commerce (in respect of goods) or the Bank of Norway (in respect of invisibles). However, the authorized banks may, without prior per- mission, effect payments to nonresidents for goods on the import free list and for most invisibles. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods in which payments to and receipts from nonresidents are to be effected is set out in the payments agree- ments concluded with other countries.1 Usually, inward and outward 1 Besides payments agreements with EPU countries and Argentina, Norway has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is a compensation agreement with East Germany. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY payments must be made in either Norwegian kroner or the currency of the country of the nonresident (double-account payments agreements), or in a single currency (single-account payments agreements). Pay- ments for free list goods bought in dollar area countries2 may be made in any currency. Payments in Norwegian kroner are made into and out of free accounts held in Norwegian kroner with the authorized banks (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident account held in Norwegian kroner with the authorized banks: free accounts and blocked accounts. Free accounts may be used for all payments to and from the country of the nonresident holder. Any balance in a free account may be converted at any time into the currency of the country of the holder. Nonresident-owned capital, which normally cannot be transferred abroad, is deposited in blocked accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for various expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance premiums, and traveling expenses, and for investment in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner only. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with an authorized Norwegian bank or be sent to the owner abroad. Imports and Import Payments All goods on the import free list may be imported freely from OEEC countries and their associated areas and from Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia. Specified items on the import free list may be imported freely from dollar area countries. Goods on the free list may be imported against a declaration; all other imports require import licenses. However, goods included in a list of global quotas may be imported up to the limits of the quotas from OEEC countries, from dollar area countries (with the exception of passenger cars, other than taxis, and delivery vans), and from a few other countries. If no license is required, or when an import license is obtained, pay- ment may be effected without delay, subject to presentation of a copy of the import declaration or a copy of the import license, and provided 2 The dollar area countries are listed as Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- duras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments to nonresidents for most current invisibles is granted freely. Norwegian tourists to all European countries, the United States, and Canada are granted the equivalent of NKr 700 per year for each adult.3 Each person leaving Norway may export NKr 99 in Norwegian banknotes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may export any foreign banknotes that they can prove they brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods on the export free list may be exported freely to OEEC countries, the United States, Canada, and a number of other countries, against a declaration or a free list license, which is granted auto- matically. All other exports are subject to license. Payment must be received in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above). All exchange resulting from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds front Invisibles Incoming receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may import NKr 99 in Norwegian banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes.4 Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresi- dents are subject to approval by the Bank of Norway. Outward trans- fers of capital are subject to individual license, the granting of which depends on such circumstances as the merits of the case, the transfer possibilities under the relevant payments agreement, the possibility of compensation with Norwegian assets abroad, etc. Outward transfers in respect of investments made in Norway after the war can be provided for in accordance with the terms of approval of the invest- ment. Payments for contractual amortization are permitted freely. 3 Effective March 11, 1957, this basic exchange allowance was increased to NKr 1,500 per calendar year. 4 Effective March 16, 1957, travelers were permitted to bring in NKr 300 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 50. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY In accordance with an agreement concluded by Norway with Den- mark, Sweden, and the United Kingdom in 1950, capital transfers to these countries normally are permitted. Transfers to the United States and Canada may take place within certain limits. Above these limits, transfer depends upon the merits of the case, but inherited capital assets owned by residents of the United States or Canada may be transferred freely. Repatriation of moderate amounts of other non- resident-owned capital is permitted in cases of hardship. The export and import of, and all transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securi- ties, have to be surrendered. Investments and transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are subject to approval, which is granted restrictively. Changes during 1956 May 1. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage scheme was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. July 1. The percentage of liberalized imports on private account from the dollar area was raised to 82.9 (1953 basis). Licenses were no longer required for imports from the dollar area of goods on an import free list. The percentage of liberalized imports from OEEC countries was raised from 75 to 78 (1948 basis) by adding about 320 commodi- ties to the list of goods already liberalized under the OEEC liberaliza- tion scheme. The list of global quotas was modified in connection with the liberalization of imports from OEEC countries. Yugoslavia and four Latin American countries were added to the group of countries to which the global quotas apply. Imports under global quotas (with the exception of passenger cars, other than taxis, and delivery vans) could also be made from dollar area countries. July 1. The procedures governing exports of, and payments for, goods on the export free list were simplified. The export free list was published and extended to cover 47 per cent of Norway's exports to countries on the list (1954 basis). July 1. The allocation of NKr 700 per year in foreign exchange to Norwegian tourists was extended to include trips to all European coun- tries, the United States, and Canada. (Previously, this allocation was 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY granted for travel only to EPU countries, Finland, Spain, and Yugoslavia.) July 2. Arrangements came into effect for multilateral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Norwegian kroner in accounts of banks in Argentina became exchangeable for the currency of any country participating in the scheme or could be transferred freely to krone accounts related to any of the countries in the group. August 13. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements with Argentina (see July 2, above). The Italian lira was added to the cur- rencies that could be exchanged for kroner in the accounts of banks in Argentina. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 4.7619 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions are effected at uniform rates. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose trans- actions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established by the Fund and its members. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of certain specified foreign exchange. They may also cover their permitted trans- actions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees either spot, or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be effected through author- ized dealers. The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 20 com- mercial banks authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Regulations prescribe the currencies to be used for both trade and nontrade payments with different countries and monetary areas. The prescribed methods of payment are similar to those of the United Kingdom and most other Sterling Area territories. Exchange receipts have to be obtained through a bank. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained either in sterling through a non- resident account in the United Kingdom related to any Transferable Account country, Canada, or an American Account country, according to the country concerned, or, in some cases, in other specified curren- cies. Receipts from Sterling Area countries (other than India) must be received in Pakistan rupees or sterling from the account of a resident in the Sterling Area other than a resident of India or Pakistan. Exchange transactions with India and with Afghanistan, and those covered by the trade agreement with the U.S.S.R., are settled in Pakistan rupees. Payments abroad by residents of Pakistan to countries within the Sterling Area (other than India) are made by the transfer of sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to the 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN appropriate account of a nonresident; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by the transfer of sterling or Pakistan rupees to an account related to any Transferable Account country, Canada, or an American Account country, according to the residence of the recipient, or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for foreign banks without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other non- resident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange control with India are governed by separate regulations. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense purposes, goods for which orders are placed directly by the departments of the Central Government, certain goods imported over the land route from Iran and Afghanistan, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notifi- cation (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). Individual import licenses may be used in any country of the world, except for items imported with a single cotmtry license under the terms of the trade agreement with that country. Import licenses are issued only on a c. & f. basis. Foreign exchange under the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is made available upon receipt of an import license from the applicant. His application must, however, be placed through an authorized bank in the exchange control area in which he resides. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. However, under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Although remittances for business and commer- cial purposes normally are permitted, remittances of a personal nature 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN either are subject to annual quotas or are permitted on their individual merits. Separate regulations govern payments to India for such pur- poses as travel, family maintenance, etc. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad require special authority. Foreign exchange is granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions, but not to importers for transport insurance, which may only be effected with insurance companies in Pakistan. Exchange is granted for trans- fers abroad of dividends and other earnings due to nonresidents. Pay- ments for international travel fares are permitted if certain conditions are met. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic two-year rations, which vary according to the country to be visited; however, there is no basic ration for tourist travel to North, Central, and South America and the Philippine Republic, applications for which are considered on their individual merits. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in. Residents of Pakistan leaving for Afghanistan may take with them Afghan currency without limit; for travel to other countries, foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of PRs 50 per person at any one time or sterling notes not exceeding £10 may be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of most commodities is allowed, f ree of export control, under open general license. A few other commodities are subject to export license. In both cases, the State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter to ensure surrender of the foreign exchange earned. An authorized dealer is required to certify an export shipment a f ter making sure that the exporter's declaration meets specified conditions. The exporter declares that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is received, he will surrender the specified foreign currency within a certain period of time. Exporters of certain primary goods are entitled to import licenses corresponding to 15 per cent of their exchange receipts, and exporters of certain manufactured goods to import licenses corresponding to 25 or 40 per cent, according to the goods, to be used for their own specified imports (see section on Changes during 1956, October 1, below). 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming foreign exchange from invisibles, with the exception of certain currencies1 which may be retained, must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Travelers entering Pakistan are per- mitted to bring with them Pakistan currency notes up to PRs 500 per person, sterling notes up to £10 per person, and coins that are legal tender in India up to Rs 5 per person. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In accordance with the foreign investment policy, foreign investors may invest, without specific permission, capital up to 60 per cent of the total of local and foreign investment, in 27 approved industries; in special cases, foreign participation may be higher. The extent of foreign investment in public utility concerns (other than the 27 approved industries) is considered on the merits of each case. The transfer of capital abroad and the repatriation of investments other than those of U.K. origin are not normally permitted, except where this has been arranged by prior agreement with the Government or is in accordance with the foreign investment policy. Applications for the repatriation of old foreign investments are considered on their merits. Capital transfers to the United Kingdom are guaranteed under the terms of the financial agreement of 1951 with that country. Capital invested after September 1, 1954 in industrial projects approved by the Government of Pakistan and separately approved for coverage by the repatriation guarantee may be repatriated at any time thereafter — subject l!o the exchange control regulations in force —to the country in which the investment originated and to the extent of the original invest- ment; any profits derived from investment which are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government of Pakistan may be treated as investment for the purpose of repatriation; appreciation of any such capital investment may also be treated as investment for repatriation purposes. For an investment by means of goods or services, the amount of capital is the rupee value of such goods or services as recorded in the books of the company or firm concerned at the time of investment. These repatriation facilities do not apply to purchases of shares on the stock exchange, unless the 1 The currencies of Aden, Afghanistan, Belgian Congo, Burma, Ceylon, East Africa, French Africa, India, Portuguese territories in India, Madagascar, Malaya, Mauritius, Nepal, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, South Africa, and Tibet. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN shares are an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Under the foreign investment policy, if any undertaking is nationalized, just and equitable compensation will be paid to the dispossessed owners and will be freely remittable to the country of residence of the foreign owners. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are not permitted, except for limited facilities granted to emigrants. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which transfers are to be made. Under an agree- ment with the United Kingdom, the transfer of capital assets belonging to U.K. nationals is authorized freely by the State Bank. Other foreign nationals resident in Pakistan are permitted to transfer capital assets up to UK£5,000. Residents are permitted to sell foreign securities upon approval by the State Bank, provided the foreign exchange proceeds resulting from such sales are surrendered, but there is no provision for purchases of foreign securities by residents. In this connection, foreigners residing in Pakistan are considered nonresidents. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. Changes during 1956 January. The export of rice was prohibited. January 4. A limited number of import licenses for machinery and other capital goods, with a validity of more than one year and provid- ing for payments in four installments spread over two years, was issued. February 2. The allocations of travel exchange were put on a two- year rather than an annual basis, in most cases without affecting the amounts effectively available; for some countries, the quota of £30 annually was raised to £75 for two years. February 2. The arrangements were canceled under which Japanese exporters could open nonresident accounts in Pakistan rupees with authorized dealers in Pakistan for the receipt of payments against capital goods supplied on a deferred payments basis. March 14. Five manufactured products were added to those entitled to the benefits of the export incentive scheme. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN April. Agreement was reached with Iraq that Pakistan would permit annual imports of Iraqi dates up to PRs 2 million, in exchange for any exportable Pakistan commodity. May. Additional releases of foreign exchange up to PRs 95 million were made available for commercial imports. June 20. Exports of raw ju te to any destination were put under open general license. June 27. A trade agreement was concluded with the U.S.S.R., under which all commercial payments would be effected in Pakistan rupees. July 1. A new trade agreement with France entered into force. The use of French francs to finance part of the trade between the two countries was discontinued; all payments would henceforth be made in sterling. September 14. The amount in Pakistan currency notes which per- sons entering Pakistan may import was raised from PRs 250 to PRs 500. October 1. Authorized dealers were required to obtain prior approval of the State Bank of Pakistan to sell foreign securities from their invest- ment portfolios against payment in Pakistan rupees. October 1. The export promotion scheme was extended, but with certain modifications. The number of primary commodities covered was reduced from 67 to 32, while the manufactured goods covered remained virtually unchanged. Exporters of commodities in a group of 12 manufactured items were granted import privileges correspond- ing to 40 per cent of their exchange proceeds, compared with the 25 per cent applicable to the export proceeds of other manufactured goods. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System The par value is Paraguayan Guaranies 60 = US$1, and is applied to all exchange transactions except payments for nonessential imports, which are subject to an exchange surcharge of 0 25 per US$1, and for capital and most invisibles, which are conducted in a free exchange market at fluctuating rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated^ by the Central Bank of Paraguay, which issues all exchange licenses required in the official market. All exchange transactions in that market must be effected through the Central Bank. There are no controls or restrictions on transactions in the fluctuating free market, which is conducted by the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Paraguay maintains bilateral payments agreements with several countries, according to which exchange payments and receipts must be effected through clearing accounts,1 most of them in terms of U.S. dollars. The terms of settlement for transactions through the official market are prescribed on an individual basis. Imports and Import Payments Imports may enter Paraguay only if an exchange contract having the effect of an import and exchange license has been concluded with the Central Bank. In general, restrictions are applied to both essen- tial and nonessential items. Relatively liberal licensing is extended to certain foodstuffs and a few basic goods essential to domestic production. Imports are divided into two categories. Essential imports (Group I) are paid for at the (fi 60 rate; and an effective rate of 0 85 per US$1 applies to nonessential imports (Group II), which represent about 31 per cent of permitted imports. Within 30 days of the approval of an import license, an importer must make a prior deposit in local currency amounting to 100 per cent 1 For this purpose, the following agreement account countries are specified: Argentina, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Italy, Nether- lands, Poland, Spain, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY of the value for imports being paid under documentary letters of credit, and 50 per cent for imports payable against documents. These deposits are placed with the commercial banks, which must pass them on to the Central Bank each day, and are a prerequisite to the formal issuance of the license. In the granting of licenses for imports, there is some discrimination based on the limited availability of certain currencies. Prescription of currencies is applied to payments for imports from countries with which Paraguay has bilateral payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Licenses for payments at the official rate are granted only for certain invisibles and within specified limits. Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds A sales declaration must be approved by the Central Bank for all exports, and an obligation to surrender to the Central Bank at the 0 60 rate the exchange proceeds of exports must be undertaken before shipment of the goods. With certain exceptions, irrevocable letters of credit are required for exports. The foreign currencies to be received for exports are specified (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). A few goods for domestic consumption that are in short supply require export licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The export of strategic materials to Mainland China, North Korea, and certain other countries is prohibited. Export firms that possess foreign exchange resources or obtain foreign credit may enter into "exchange swaps" with the Central Bank. Under these arrangements, the export firm sells foreign currency to the Central Bank on a spot basis, thus acquiring guaranies, and at the same time a forward contract is concluded by which the firm obtains the right to repurchase the foreign exchange against guaranies at the same rate within a period of 180 days, renewable for a further period of 180 days. Exchange proceeds resulting from the sale of exports are surrendered against guaranies, which are then used to acquire foreign currency under the terms of the forward contract. Similar arrange- ments exist in respect of prepayments in foreign exchange received by exporters. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Proceeds from Invisibles Reinsurance, registered insurance, government receipts, and im- porters' and exporters' commissions are the only invisibles for which exchange proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Receipts from all other invisibles may be negotiated freely in the free market. Capital Foreign investments may be registered if they fulfill a number of conditions, e.g., if they are considered advantageous to the economic and social development of the nation. According to Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955, which established a system for foreign capital investment in Paraguay, foreign capital in various forms is eligible for registration and thus secures certain privileges: among these is the allocation of foreign exchange for transfer abroad of interest, profits, dividends, amortization, and royalties, up to 20 per cent annually of the registered capital. However, should such exchange not be allocated, for balance of payments reasons, the enterprise concerned can be authorized by the Central Bank to retain up to 25 per cent (and in some cases up to 50 per cent) of the foreign exchange derived from its exports. Registered and unregistered foreign capital may enter freely through the fluctuating free market. No licenses are required for transfers from Paraguay of capital and earnings thereon, and such transfers may be made freely by both residents and nonresidents at the fluctuating free rate. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (guaranies per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling 60.00 All exports. Government receipts. Rein- surance and registered insurance. Com- missions. 109.85 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Capital. 250 60.00 Essential imports (Group I). Govern- ment payments. Reinsurance and regis- tered insurance. Certain other author- ized invisibles. 85.00 ((f 60 plus <B 25 Surcharge) Npnessential imports (Group II). Re- mittanqes and expenses of official mis- sions, etc. 112.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Changes during 1956 January 23. The effective rate for the exchange proceeds of exports of logs and lumber was depreciated to <j& 43 per US$1. February. The obligation of Paraguayan residents to declare all holdings of gold or foreign exchange of more than US$300 or its equiva- lent was canceled. March 1. A new par value of 0 60 per US$1 was established, applic- able to all exchange transactions except (1) payments for nonessential imports, which were made subject to an exchange surcharge of 0 25 per US$1, and (2) capital and certain invisible transactions, which were to be conducted in a free exchange market. Accompanying reforms included the removal of all existing exchange taxes on imports and on payments for various invisibles, subsidies and rate-mixing devices applicable to exports, exchange rate discrimination among foreign currencies, and the need for licenses for payments through the free market. April 6. The advance deposit requirement was lowered to 30 per cent for about 60 essential import items. April 13. The proceeds of exports of citrus fruits could temporarily be negotiated in the free market. April 20. All essential food products were temporarily allowed to be imported through frontier trade and to be paid for through the free market. June 18. The system of exports and imports in small parcels was re-established, allowing Paraguayan residents to export and import the equivalent of US$20-30 of merchandise weekly to and from neighbor- ing countries, and the equivalent of US$25 monthly to and from other countries. July 2. The authorization of April 20 permitting certain imports through the free market was canceled. July 26. Exchange houses were no longer allowed to operate in the free market. July 31. The authorization of April 13 permitting the sale of pro- ceeds from citrus fru it exports in the fr$e market was canceled. August 8. Spare parts for industrial machinery and motor vehicles for the purchaser's own use could be imported without a license, up to a monthly value of US$100 f.o.b. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY August 16. For imports of tractors, produce trucks, and various farming implements authorized under short-term credits from abroad, the advance deposit requirement for the permit was made applicable only to the first installment payment due to the exporter. August 22. Imports of passenger cars priced at more than US$2,500 c.i.f. Buenos Aires or Montevideo, or the equivalent in other currencies, were prohibited. September. The exchange surcharge of $ 25 per US$1 would be applied to remittances at the official rate for services that are not specified or specifically mentioned in the exchange budget but might be authorized in exceptional cases. September 12. A new bilateral payments agreement with France provided that settlements between the two countries would be made in transferable French francs. October 9. A new bilateral payments agreement was signed with Argentina. November 2. The period for formalizing an import permit after official aijthorization was shortened from 45 days to 30 days. November 8. Advance deposits required for imports other than those under deferred payments arrangements were modified to 100 per cent of the import value for imports under documentary letters of credit and 50 per cent for imports paid against documents, the importer having the option to use either form of payment. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System The initial par value of Peruvian Soles 6.50 = US$1, established on December 18,1946, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. No new par value has been proposed. There are two free fluctuating exchange rates: an exchange certificate market rate applying to most trade transactions and a .draft market rate for other trade and most nontrade transactions. Foreign exchange from exports must be converted, either totally or partially, into ex- change certificates, which are valid for ten days and are issued for 100 per cent of export proceeds in U.S. dollars and sterling. These ex- change certificates are negotiable in the certificate market and may be used to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. All exchange transactions that do not qualify for the certificate market are permitted freely in the draft market. The exchange rates fluctuate and broken cross rates exist in both markets. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Export permits and exchange licenses permitting the use of certifi- cates for nontrade transactions are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. The exchange certificates (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru, which has conducted stabilization operations, from time to time, in the certificate market. Exchange certificate transactions are conducted through commercial banks; draft market transactions are conducted freely through banks and various other dealers, or directly between sellers and buyers. Prescription of Currency The issuance of exchange certificates only in certain currencies—at present in U.S. dollars and sterling—results in prescription of curren- cies for all transactions effected through the certificate market. Trans- actions through the draft market may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted freely, with the exception of automobiles, which are permitted on a quota basis, and imports from Eastern Europe and Mainland China. Control over other imports exists only insofar 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU as commercial banks must ensure that certificate exchange is used to pay for actual imports and not for unauthorized purposes. There are no licenses or other controls applied to payments for imports. However, in the certificate market, through which most imports are paid, certificates are denominated only in U.S. dollars and sterling; payments in other currencies may be effected through the draft market or by converting the certificate into the currency required. Importers opening documentary letters of credit through commercial banks must make advance deposits (except for imports of wheat, meat, milk, and fats) in foreign currency of 25 per cent of the import value for imports for production and 50 per cent for all other imports. Banks may finance up to 50 per cent of the local currency equivalent of such advance deposits for raw materials, but credit may not be extended to effect nonessential imports. Payments for Invisibles Exchange licenses are required in order to pay for invisibles with certificates. The types of invisibles eligible for, and usually allowed in, the certificate market include freight and transit expenses, interest payments and dividends, rents on property, royalties, agents* com- missions, repayments of commercial debts, and insurance and reinsur- ance payments. Remuneration of foreign technicians and payments for pensions are also usually allowed through the certificate market. Exchange for all other types of invisibles, and for all invisibles in cur- rencies other than the two in which certificates are denominated, is obtained in the draft market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export licenses may be denied for goods in short supply domestically. The export of strategic materials to Mainland China and North Korea is prohibited. In general, exports are authorized only against payment in the two currencies in which certificates are issued (U.S. dollars and sterling). The surrender requirements in respect of these currencies have been varied from time to time, and certificates in other currencies can be issued if it is considered necessary. Export proceeds in either of the two currencies in which certificates are issued must be surrendered within 5 days of the date of shipment for exports covered by irrevo- cable letters of credit and within 30 days for other exports. The portions of export proceeds not subject to surrender against exchange 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU certificates, and the proceeds of exports authorized in currencies for which no certificates are issued, may be sold in the draft market. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles are free t)f control and may be sold in the draft market. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresi- dents may be effected without control in the draft market. Capital remittances representing contractual amortization and depreciation of foreign capital and depletion of mineral investment may be effected, within certain limits, through the certificate market, subject to ex- change license. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (soles per UJ3. dollar) Buying 19.00 (Fluctuating Exchange Certifi- cate Market Rate) Export proceeds in sterling and U.S. dollars. 19.04 (Fluctuating Draft Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Invisibles and capital. Selling 19.00 i (Fluctuating Exchange Certifi- cate Market Rate) Most imports. Certain invisibles and capital. 19.04 (Fluctuating Draft Market Rate) Occasional imports. Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1956 August 13. The issue of exchange certificates for 10 per cent of export proceeds in Argentine pesos was discontinued. August 28. Quotas for imports of automobiles and trucks during 1957 were established at 6,000 units. 1 The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission on certificate sales. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Philippine Pesos 2 = US$1. The official rates are P 2.00375 buying, P 2.015 selling, per US$1. These rates represent the official minimum buying and maximum selling rates of commercial banks for demand drafts and telegraphic transfers of US$500 and over. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of the Philip- pines, whose Monetary Board determines, on a quarterly or semiannual basis, the amount of exchange to be allocated for various purposes, including payments for imports. In the licensing of exchange for imports, the Monetary Board of the Central Bank is assisted by a committee of commercial banks in Manila appointed for this purpose. All sales and purchases of exchange must pass through authorized agent banks (the commercial banks and, for transactions connected with travel, the American Express Company). Post offices are also authorized to sell U.S. dollar money orders payable in the United States and its territories and possessions for certain specified purposes, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. The authorized agent banks are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, to issue exchange licenses and sell exchange for specified transactions and in specified amounts. Applications for exchange licenses outside the scope of authority of the authorized agent banks are referred to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments other than that payments to Japan must be effected through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank. It is required that all proceeds from exports be obtained in U.S. dollars, except that exports to Japan must be settled through the clearing account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are composed primarily of nonresident peso funds that were in the Philippines prior to the imposition of exchange controls, savings of former residents, unremitted portions of income or other earnings of nonresidents, and other items of a similar nature. These balances are not ordinarily convertible into foreign exchange. They may be used for local investments or expenses. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments Import licenses, as such, are not issued, but the Bureau of Customs will not permit the entry of goods without the presentation of a release certificate issued by an authorized agent bank in a form prescribed by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank. All payments for imports must be effected through letters of credit, except those made by importers who since 1950 have been permitted by the Monetary Board to remit such payments by demand draf t, mail, or telegraphic transfer. All applications for the opening of letters of credit, customarily filed with authorized agent banks, are therefore considered as applications for licenses to purchase foreign exchange to pay for imports. Importers are classified, according to status, as government, old producer, new producer, old importer, new importer qualified under Republic Act No. 650, new importer under the delegated authority of the Bankers' Committee, or new importer by authority of the Monetary Board and who, up to and including the semester immediately preceding the current period for which foreign exchange is being allocated, has opened letters of credit and/or made remittances by mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or demand d ra ft to pay for imported merchandise. The Monetary Board certifies to each authorized agent bank the total amount of foreign exchange available to it for either a three- month or a six-month period. This certification includes a classifi- cation by importers, based on their actual use of exchange in previous semesters, and by commodity categories. In addition, the Monetary Board sets aside a contingency reserve of foreign exchange for sales to customers not considered in the regular budget; this reserve is used primarily for the requirements of old producers to expand production and of new producers to import machinery and raw materials, and for adjustments of quotas. With the exception of certain goods which may, upon approval of the Department of Commerce and Industry, be imported without an exchange allocation from the Central Bank, imports of goods without an exchange allocation (referred to as "no-dollar" imports) are, as a general rule, prohibited. There are no prescription of currency requirements other than that payments to Japan must be made through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank; U.S. dollars are provided for import payments to all other countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments and remittances abroad for invisibles require exchange licenses. Such licenses are usually granted to effect fu ll payment 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC abroad for freight, insurance, cable and telephone services, interest and amortization, professional services, medical treatment, pensions, and similar items. Exchange licenses are granted on a limited basis for travel, education expenses, maintenance, profits and dividends, income, royalties, salaries, etc. Travelers may take out with them a maximum of F 100 in Philippine currency, of which coins may not exceed P 5. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports are not restricted; but they are controlled to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an author- ized agent of the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials are prohibited. Barter exports are allowed under certain conditions and subject to the approval of the Department of Commerce and Industry. With the exception of barter exports and exports to Japan, the proceeds of all exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars and surrendered to an authorized agent, and no commodity may be exported from the Philippines unless covered by a draft drawn in U.S. dollars and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent. Exports to Japan are settled through the clearing account maintained at the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency, of which coins may not exceed P 50 for first-class passengers, P 20 for second- class passengers, and P 10 for third-class passengers. Capital All exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. The trans- fer abroad of nonresident-owned capital invested prior to December 9, 1949 is not ordinarily allowed. Transfers to nonresident investors of profits and dividends out of current net earnings are allowed in amounts ranging from 25 to 100 per cent of the foreign participation in the profits, the amount permitted to be transferred being related to the contributions made by the firm to the national income, to improving the balance of payments, and to the basic needs of the economy. Capital invested by nonresidents after December 9, 1949 with the prior approval of the Central Bank is eligible for transfer abroad, but all transfers of capital require approval of the Central Bank. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC The import and export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to license. For certain transactions, licenses may be issued by authorized security dealers on behalf of the Central Bank. Foreign assets held by residents and acquired prior to December 9, 1949 are subject to declaration and their use or disposal is subject to approval. Earnings and other acquisitions of foreign exchange abroad by residents since that date must be remitted to the Philippines and surrendered. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are in principle not permitted. Changes during 1956 January 24. Exchange quota allocations were reduced for certain toilet articles, uncooked cereal foods, sacramental wine, monosodium glutamate, and bags and sacks; those for various textile goods, tape, smoking tobacco, sesame seeds, and soups were canceled. February 15. Agent banks were notified not to issue foreign exchange licenses for medical purposes except to applicants who can show written certification from a physician that their illnesses require special medical attention which is available only abroad. March 6. Exchange quota allocations for cleansing tissue paper and special textile fabrics were reduced. March 28. The exchange quota allocations for starches, ready-mixed paint, calcium carbide, certain leather items, automobiles, toys, etc., were canceled through the reclassification of these items in the Unclassi- fied Import (UI) category from the Highly Essential (HE) or Essential (E) category. April 18. Wooden alphabet blocks were included in the Unclassified Import category. April 20. Exchange quota allocations for cleansers were canceled. April 27. Imports of raw cotton were to be effected through the U.S. Operations Mission and foreign exchange quotas for such imports were canceled, except for allocations not exceeding US$10,000. May 2. Venetian blind bars, of any material, were included in the Unclassified Import category. May 7. Exchange quota allocations for Venetian blind metalware were reduced by 40 per cent. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC May 22. The Central Bank announced a new policy for remittances of profits and dividends abroad. Philippine companies applying for remittance of dividends to their nonresident stockholders, and Philippine branches of foreign companies, would be allowed to remit amounts ranging from 25 per cent to 100 per cent of the foreign participation in their current net profits, depending upon their net contributions to the national income and employment, to the strengthening of the country's balance of payments position, and to the supply of the basic needs of the economy. May 26. Exchange quota allocations for bags and sacks for articles weighing less than 25 pounds were canceled. June 4. Exchange quota allocations for fan ribs (wood) and fans of any material, except electric fans, were canceled. June 6. Exchange quota allocations for gift-wrapping paper and greeting cards were canceled. (The latter was amended on September 7 to include only Christmas cards.) June 11. Exchange quota allocations for tire manufacturing and repair materials were reduced by 55 per cent (40 per cent was assigned to camelback and the other 15 per cent was canceled). June 12. Radio receiving s'ets, complete with cabinets, were included in the Unclassified Import category. Exchange quota allocations for abrasive paper and cloth and emery paper and cloth were reduced by 50 per cent. July 2. The Central Bank announced a 15 per cent reduction in unrestricted quota allocations for the second semester of 1956; exchange quota allocations for automobile tires or casings were reduced by 25 per cent and those for truck tires by 35 per cent. July 11. Barter trade with the United States and with other countries without exchange controls and with free ports, such as Hong Kong, was stopped. July 25. Exchange quota allocations for the second semester of 1956 for such aluminum products as corrugated sheets, plain sheets, and foil were reduced by 50 per cent. July 31. The Central Bank announced a new policy on film rental remittances, under which film exchanges would be permitted to remit to their head offices abroad an amount in an inverse proportion to the producers' share in net receipts, with the maximum allowable remittance set at 25 per cent of the producers' share. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC August 28. A yen-escrow barter agreement with Japan was announced by the Central Bank and rules and regulations for its implementation were issued. September 7. Regulations were issued for the opening of import letters of credit under barter permits of the Department of Commerce and Industry. Barter permits approved af ter January 30, 1956 but prior to July 12, 1956 were to be distributed in the following propor- tions: 30 per cent to the National Marketing Corporation, 30 per cent to essential producers or essential consumers, and 40 per cent to nonessential producers or nonessential consumers. Barter permits approved on or after July 12 would cover commodities in the following proportions: 50 per cent for producers' goods and 50 per cent for consumers7 goods—the latter, however, divided into 25 per cent for essential consumers' goods and 25 per cent for nonessential consumers' goods. However, the National Marketing Corporation may requisition up to 25 per cent of consumers' goods (both essential and nonessential) and producers are allowed to utilize their licenses wholly for producers' goods if they wish. November 14. Egg trays (made of paper pulp) were included in the Unclassified Import category. November 16. The Central Bank decontrolled the import of 31 essential commodities, including certain foodstuffs, drugs and medi- cines, biologicals and Pharmaceuticals imported in bulk as raw materials, and construction materials in short supply. Quota allocations for spectacles and sunglasses, except fishing and industrial goggles, were canceled. November 20. School crayons were included in the Unclassified Import category. December 4. Ink concentrates were included in the Unclassified Import category. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN * Exchange Rate System The par value is Swedish Kroner 5.17321 = US$1. The official rates are SKr 5.17 buying, SKr 5.18 selling, per US$1. Sweden participates with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Nether- lands, Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward trans- actions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for trans- actions in French francs or with banks in France), with other author- ized banks in any of the participating countries in any of their cur- rencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may also deal on a spot basis with banks in Argentina -in these currencies (except deutsche mark) against any of these currencies, as well as against Swedish kronor in the nonresident accounts of banks in Argentina. Sweden operates a "transit dollar" scheme, under which dollars are purchased abroad at a premium by Swedish commercial banks and resold to Swedish importers of goods on the "transit dollar" list (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Administration of Control Import and export licenses when required are issued by the National Commission of Industry and Commerce or, in the case of foodstuffs, the National Commission of Agriculture. All payments to and from nonresidents must be made through the Sveriges Riksbank or through one of the 14 Swedish authorized banks, and require approval by the Foreign Exchange Control Office, which has, however, delegated wide powers to the authorized banks to approve payments. Prescription of Currency Usually, inward and outward payments must be made either in Swedish kronor or in the currency of the country of the nonresident. Payments in kronor are made into and out of nonresident-owned Regu- 1 In view of the changes that became effective on March 1, 1957 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the situation as at that date. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN lar Accounts held in kroner with authorized banks. As a corollary of the multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement (see section on Exchange Rate System, above), payments which, according to the general rules, should be effected^in one of the currencies included in the arrangement may instead be made in another of those currencies or in kroner through any Transferable Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). There are certain exceptions to these rules, because of stipulations in existing bilateral payments agreements as to methods of payment.2 Nonresident Accounts There are three main types of nonresident account held in Swedish kroner with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular (i.e., current) Accounts, including Transferable Regular Accounts; Restricted Ac- counts; and Blocked Accounts. Regular Accounts may be used for all payments to and from the country of the nonresident holder, except where a payments agreement between Sweden and the country con- cerned stipulates otherwise. Balances on Regular Accounts may be exchanged at any time into the currency of the country of the holder. Regular Accounts of residents of dollar area countries 3 may be con- verted into U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars or transferred freely to any other Regular Account. The Regular Accounts of banks in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, and the Sterling Area, as well as Argentina, Japan, and Uruguay, and of any resident (i.e., not only a bank) of the Netherlands, the Sterling Area, Japan, and Uruguay, are called Transferable Regular Accounts. Transferable Regular Accounts may be exchanged for any currency not freely convertible or be transferred to any other Regular Account (including other Transfer- able Regular Accounts) not held by residents of dollar area countries. Nonresident-owned capital that cannot be transferred abroad usually is allowed to be deposited in Restricted Accounts or Blocked 2 In addition to payments agreements with EPU countries and multilateral payments arrangements with Argentina, Japan, and Uruguay, Sweden has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Spain, UJ3.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 8 In Sweden, these are listed as Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Accounts. A Restricted Account may be used to cover the holder's and his family's living expenses in Sweden up to a certain limit, for pay- ment of the holder's own taxes in Sweden, and for investment in bonds quoted on the Swedish stock exchange. Bonds purchased in this way and proceeds therefrom must be deposited in a "restricted securities" account with an authorized bank. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not permitted to be credited to other accounts; the dis- posal of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to individual license. Imports and Import Payments Most goods from OEEC countries and their associated areas, Fin- land, and Yugoslavia, as well as printed matter from all countries, may be imported freely. Some imports from other countries require import licenses. Most commodities purchased in dollar countries against pay- ment in U.S. dollars are free of import restriction. Licenses for a few commodities with origin in dollar countries and listed on the "transit dollar" list are granted automatically provided that, in cases where purchases are made in dollar countries, payments are made in "transit dollars" purchased from Swedish commercial banks, or where the com- modities are purchased in non-dollar countries, payments are made in conformity with the regulations governing payments between Sweden and such countries. When an import license has been obtained, or if no license is required, payment may be effected without delay, subject to presentation of evidence of the dispatch of the goods to Sweden, and provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the gen- eral rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for most current invisibles are allowed freely through the authorized'banks. Restrictions are applied to a few items, particularly to payments in U.S. dollars. Tourists are granted any reasonable amount of exchange for travel to Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway,4 and the Sterling Area countries; the equivalent of SKr 5,000 yearly for each person for travel to other non-dollar coun- tries; and the equivalent of SKr 1,500 yearly for travel to the dollar area countries. Each person leaving Sweden may export Swedish banknotes and coins to a total amount of SKr 1,000, in denominations no higher than 4 For travel to Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Norway, only amounts exceeding SKr 5,000 need be inscribed in the traveler's passport. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN SKr 100. Nonresidents may, when leaving Sweden, freely export foreign banknotes and other foreign means of payment brought into the coun- try by them, up to the equivalent of SKr 5,000; for amounts exceeding this limit, a certificate of "Means of Payment Imported and Intended for Re-Export," issued on entry, is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to North, Central, and South American countries (except Argentina) and to all OEEC countries and Finland are exempt from licensing requirements. However, payment must be received within six months after the dispatch of the commodity and must be in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). All proceeds from exports and from invisibles received in hard currencies (mainly U.S. and Canadian dollars and free Swiss francs) must be surrendered. Other currencies may be kept in a cur- rency account with a Swedish authorized bank. These currency accounts may, however, be used by the holder to make payments abroad only if authorized; or they may be sold against Swedish kronor at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming receipts from invisibles have to be reported to the Foreign Exchange Control Office. Each person entering Sweden may import SKr 1,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, in denominations no higher than SKr 100, and foreign banknotes without limitation. Capital Investments in Sweden by nonresidents and the repatriation of their capital are subject to approval. Payments for contractual amortiza- tion are permitted freely. Transfers on account of dividends and other earnings on investments are in principle permitted. In accordance with an agreement concluded by Sweden with Denmark, Norway, and the United Kingdom in 1950, capital transfers and transactions between Sweden and these countries are generally permitted. Inheritances due to nonresidents may be transferred, and in cases of hardship the re- patriation of moderate amounts of other nonresident-owned capital is also permitted. Capital assets of nonresidents which are not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad may be used in Sweden for certain purposes or are held in Restricted Accounts or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Requests by residents to transfer capital abroad for direct investment are considered on a case-to-case basis. Transfers of capital abroad for portfolio investment are permitted only exceptionally. Securities may be imported into Sweden through the intermediary of an authorized bank; however, their disposal is subject to approval. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are also subject to approval. Changes during 1956 January 1. Further additions to the list of license-free imports from the dollar area became effective. May 1. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement was extended from three to six months, except for trans- actions in French francs or with French banks. June 1. The provision prohibiting export or import of Swedish bank- notes in deno'minations higher than SKr 50 was modified to allow denominations no higher than SKr 100. The maximum amount of Swedish banknotes and coins a traveler may bring into or take out of Sweden remained unchanged at SKr 300. For travel to Denmark, Fin- land, and Norway, the amount of exchange which a resident could acquire and take with him without registration in his passport was raised from SKr 1,000 to SKr 2,500, and the provisions for travel to these countries were made applicable also to travel to Iceland. July 1. The free list for dollar imports was expanded further to include many items formerly on the "transit dollar" list. The latter was reduced to a relatively few commodities, such as live animals, vegetable products, fats and oils, coffee, tobacco, and airplanes. July 2. Arrangements came into effect for multilateral settlements between Argentina and Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Swedish kroner in the accounts of Argentine banks became exchangeable for the currency of any country participating in the scheme or could be transferred freely to Swedish kroner accounts related to any of the countries in the group. August 3. Italy was included in the multilateral arrangements between Argentina and other countries (see July 2, above). October 1. A new arrangement for payments on a multilateral basis between Uruguay and Sweden came into effect. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Note. The following changes became effective on March 1, 1957: Settlements with any of the participants in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement could be made in any currency included in the scheme or in Swedish kroner through a Transferable Regular Account. The Regular Accounts of banks in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, and the Sterling Area, as well as Argentina, Japan, and Uruguay, and of any resident (i.e., not only a bank) of the Netherlands, the Sterling Area, Japan, and Uruguay, were denominated Transferable Regular Accounts, which could be ex- changed for any currency not freely convertible or be transferred to Regular Accounts (including Transferable Regular Accounts), except those held by residents of dollar area countries. For travel to Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Norway, the amount of exchange which a resident could acquire and take with him without registration in his passport was raised from SKr 2,500 to SKr 5,000; the general exchange allowance for tourist travel to other countries outside the dollar area was raised from the equivalent of SKr 3,000 to SKr 5,000 per person per year. The limit on the export and import of Swedish banknotes and coins was raised from SKr 300 to SKr 1,000 and the limit on the re-export by nonresidents of means of payment imported by them was raised from SKr 2,500 to SKr 5,000. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Syrian Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. The official rates are LS 2.19 buying, LS 2.21 selling, per US$1. The official buying rate no longer applies to any transactions, while the official selling rate applies only to some petroleum imports. All other transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1956 were LS 3.565 buying, LS 3.585 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control A decree-law of April 1952 established an Exchange Office, which under the supervision of the Council on Money and Credit is the final authority on all matters pertaining to exchange policy and control. According to an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria (which was inaugurated on August 1, 1956) and the Administrative Board of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are executed through the Central Bank, which provides the Exchange Office with the required staff and office supplies. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy. Authorized commercial banks have the responsibility for recording the exchange proceeds of most exports. Prescription of Currency Present regulations empower the Exchange Office to prescribe certain currencies to be obtained for exports of certain goods. In practice, how- ever, the Exchange Office usually requires that proceeds of major exports to all but a few neighboring countries be obtained in the cur- rency of the country to which the goods are exported (if it is an accept- able currency) or a stronger currency, at the exporter's choice. The authorized banks are permitted to use exchange derived from export proceeds only to finance import transactions. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods may be imported free of import license. Other imports require prior licenses, which are issued freely except for a short list of prohibited items consisting mainly of goods manufactured domestically. Exchange may be obtained freely at free market rates, except for some petroleum imports, to which the official rate applies. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Payments for Invisibles Exchange for invisibles may be obtained freely at free market rates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods essential to the domestic economy are pro- hibited. Most other exports are free of license. The proceeds of certain exports, including ma jor exports to countries other than Bahrein, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia, have to be obtained in acceptable currencies (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), according to destination, and recorded with and repatriated through authorized banks in Syria. There is, however, no obligation on exporters or others to sell their export proceeds, which may be held or sold freely to any authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles and such exchange may be held, sold in the free market, or otherwise dis- posed of. Capital Imports and exports of capital are free of all restriction and may be dealt with in the free market without limitation. Changes during 1956 March 19. A list of prohibited imports was issued, which contained, among others, the following items: watermelons, unpolished rice, oleo- margarine, sweetmeats, tobacco, cigars and cigarettes, soap, explosives, matches, raw cotton, footwear, and silver coins. August 14. The official selling rate ceased to apply to sales of ex- change to the Directorate-General of Propaganda and Information. October 20. The Ministry of Commerce issued a list of goods for which import licenses would not be required. The list included various foodstuffs, socks and stockings, and glass and glassware (including window glass). November 4. Sterling and French francs were excluded from the list of currencies accepted in payment of re-exports. The list then included only U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, Belgian francs, Egyptian pounds, and 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Lebanese pounds. Exports to the Sterling Area or the French Franc Area were to be paid in one of the following currencies: U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, or Belgian francs. Export exchange acquired by author- ized banks from their customers against Syrian pounds was no longer considered free exchange and could be utilized only for imports. November 14. Exports of sheep, fresh butter, and eggs were pro- hibited. November 20. Sterling and French francs were accepted in payment of contracts concluded before November 4, 1956. December 18. The exchange control authorities prescribed that ster- ling in payment of Syrian exports to the United Kingdom would be accepted only for contracts concluded before November 4, 1956. After that date, payments must be made in U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, or Bel- gian francs. December 19. In connection with a revision of tariff schedules, import duties and other taxes on imports would be computed on the average free market rates of exchange, and not on the official exchange rates, as previously. December 20. Sterling and French francs were accepted in payment of contracts that include obligations to surrender export exchange. Therefore, exports to the Sterling Area could be paid for in sterling and exports to the French Franc Area in French francs. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System No par value for the Thai Baht has been established with the Fund. There are fluctuating free market rates at which all authorized trans- actions take place. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent at these rates. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions) and take place also at the fluctuating free market rates. As at December 31,1956, the free rate for the U.S. dollar was approximately B 20.56 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies. A few imports and exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports of rice, tin, and rubber must be obtained in sterling or U.S. dollars. The currency to be obtained for other exports is set forth on the export declaration required before exports can be cleared. There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for payments to foreign countries; such payments are, how- ever, made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Transfers of baht to and from the accounts of nonresidents (including transfers between nonresident accounts) require approval, which is granted automatically for certain current payments. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but a few commodities require import licenses and a few others may not be imported at all. Payments for imports must be made by means of letters of credit, unless approval otherwise is given, and are effected at the free market rate. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 3,000 in value can be cleared through the Bangkok customs or goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through other customs stations. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Payments for Invisibles Authorized payments for invisibles are effected at the free market rate. In general, exchange is provided freely for transactions in invisi- bles when the applications are supported by the documentary evidence specified in the regulations. For foreign travel and family remittances, however, the amounts of exchange that the authorized agent may sell are limited. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of UK£50 or US$140 without prior approval of the exchange control authorities. A family traveling under the same passport may not take out more than twice these amounts without a permit. Persons in transit may take out any foreign exchange they imported on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain minor export commodities require export licenses. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation of goods" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through the customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, and rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs stations; for ship- ments of charcoal and wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and for goods exceeding B 3,000 in value through the Bangkok customs or B 5,000 in value through other customs stations. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be sold to authorized agents at the free market rate within seven days of receipt but not later than three months after the date of export. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent at the free market rate. No person may bring into Thailand local cur- rency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling under the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Capital All outward transfers of capital by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Industrial Promotion Act of October 4, 1954; this treatment can include a guarantee of the 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND transfer abroad of current net earnings. The repatriation of capital is considered on the merits of each case. Changes during 1956 March 19-August 10. The following eight products were added to the list of imports for which import licenses are required: gunny bags, potatoes, canvas rubber-soled shoes, pepper, enamelware, swallows' nests, rubber soles and heels, and knitted fabrics. April 15. The bilateral trade and payments agreement between Thailand and Japan was terminated. Payments between the two coun- tries would now be made in transferable sterling or in U.S. dollars, instead of through the open account; however, in order to deal with the outstanding balance in favor of Japan, payments for purchases of rice from Thailand by Japan could be made through the open account until November 30, 1956. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rale System The par value is Turkish Liras 2.80 = US$1. Official rates of LT 2.80 buying, LT 2.8252 selling, per US$1, apply to most trade,transactions; special rates of LT 5.25 buying, LT 5.75 selling, per US$1, apply to specified transactions; other rates of exchange arise from export premiums which vary according to the commodity and to the currency obtained. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce for the private sector and by the Ministry of Finance for the public sector. A Committee, composed of a Minister of State, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy and Commerce, and the Minister of State Enterprises, is in charge of drawing up estimates of all foreign exchange needs and receipts in the private and public sectors, making the broad allocations of exchange to these sectors, and deciding the transfers to be made each month by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, taking into consideration the type and importance of the needs. A bureau consisting of officials of the ministries concerned and of the Central Bank performs the preparatory work. The Central Bank and the authorized banks operate the details of the exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles must be effected in U. S. dollars, in free Swiss francs, in sterling through an account of the Central Bank, in other EPU currencies, in any other currency or manner acceptable to the Central Bank, or in accordance with payments agreements, which provide for the follow- ing methods of payment: (1) in U.S. dollars (as the currency of account in most cases) for transactions with Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Spain, and Yugoslavia; (2) in the currency of the partner country for transactions with Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom (and other territories of the Sterling A rea ); and (3) in sterling for transactions with the Q.S.S.R. An agreement with Switzerland provides for settlement in 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY free Swiss francs of 20 per cent of payments by Switzerland in favor of Turkey. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to approval. The issue of licenses is subject to the decision of the exchange and trade control authorities on each application.1 There may be some delay, however, between the granting of the license and the time that the exchange is actually made available. Imports on government account financed through intergovernmental loans and grants, which represent a considerable portion of the coun- try's imports, are not subject to these limitations. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce reserves the right to restrict imports from any particular bilateral agreement country within the limits of exchange proceeds accruing from that country. The Central Bank requires that applications by private importers for the allocation of foreign exchange for merchandise payments be accom- panied by a deposit of 10 per cent of the value of the application. If the applicant withdraws his application before the allocation is made, he is entitled to withdraw his deposit. Under the import surcharge-export premium system, a surcharge of 25, 50, or 75 per cent of the amount of the import license expressed in foreign currency is applied, depending on the particular commodity. Most of the imports to which surcharges are applied are nonessential or luxury items (automobiles, vacuum cleaners, refrigerators, radios, etc.). Under new regulations (see section on Changes during 1956, October 8, below), the import of industrial spare parts not exceeding LT 5,000 in value by industrialists subject to the labor law, for their own needs only, may be permitted with exchange purchased at the LT 5.75 rate, but this provision has not been implemented. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments by residents to nonresidents on account of invisibles are restricted and subject to individual license, although payments incidental to merchandise transactions are permitted auto- matically. Exchange permits are usually given for payments on account of (1) interest, commissions, and similar payments connected with bank operations; (2) export commissions, registration fees, patent fees, etc.; and (3) advertisements and other expenses connected with 1 Effective March 1, 1957, a tax was introduced on sales of exchange provided at the official rate for the import of certain commodities. The tax is 40 per cent for most goods and is payable before the goods leave the customs. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY trade. Payments by insurance companies also require permits, which usually are given. Exchange for specified services—e.g., research projects, repairs, royalties, inspections, artists, entertainment invited from abroad, busi- ness and other essential travel—is made available at the LT 5.75 rate. Exchange for business travel is granted within limits varying according to the amount of income or corporate.tax paid by the applicant firm. Travelers are permitted to export LT 99 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out, without permission, the unspent portion of the foreign exchange recorded in their passports on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods may be exported free ly; but specified goods require individual licenses, mainly in order to prevent triangular trade in /such goods that would result in payment of soft currency to Turkey for goods finally sold for hard currency. Exporters are, in general, required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported, within three months from the date of export and within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange in question has been placed at their disposal. The proceeds of certain exports in dollars benefit from premiums of 50-85 per cent of the value of the proceeds (except two items, for which the premiums are 40 and 100 per cent), in EPU currencies from premiums of 40-75 per cent (except two items, for which the premiums are 30 and 100 per cent), and in bilateral account currencies from premiums of 25-50 per cent (except one item, for which the premium is 75 per cent), depending on the commodity involved. The premiums on exports of raisins and dried figs are based on. weight rather than on export value and vary both with the currency involved and with the commercial grade of the product. These premiums are paid from funds in an Equalization Account at the Agricultural Bank derived from taxes of 25, 50, or 75 per cent on specified secondary and luxury imports. Exchange proceeds from exports of specified secondary commodities may be sold to authorized banks at the rate of LT 5.25 per US$1. The banks sell this exchange for certain purposes, such as private travel abroad and the transfer of blocked commercial funds, at a rate of LT 5.75 per US$1. Exporters of low-grade manganese and chrome may retain their export proceeds and use them to import machinery and spare parts that will help increase agricultural and mineral production, other specified machinery and spare parts, and certain industrial raw 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY materials. The retained exchange proceeds may be transferred to other importers. Proceeds from Invitiblet Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered within three months from the date on which the service was rendered and within ten days* from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Travelers are permitted to import LT 100 in Turkish.banknotes and metallic currency. Foreign tourists may sell their exchange to author- ized agents at the rate of LT 5.25 per US$1. Capital Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. The repatriation of foreign assets held by residents (which is not compulsory) may be made in foreign exchange at the rate of LT 5.25 per US$1. Repatriation may, also, in cases specifically approved by the Ministry of Finance, be effected through the import of specified commodities, provided it is verified that repatriation in foreign exchange is not possible. Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Foreign companies and contractors established abroad who wish to do business in Turkey must import in the form of foreign exchange the capital and operating funds required by the business. In principle, assets and balances owned by, and earnings accruing to, nonresidents cannot be converted into foreign currency, and if they exceed LT 500 they are blocked. Subject to individual permit, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey—except as capital for business—or those of a commercial nature may be transferred abroad through the allocation of exchange derived from the export of specified goods. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval where a nonresident interest is involved. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided the enterprise in which the investment will be made will tend to promote the economic development of the country, will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. The investment may be made 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY in the form of (1) capital brought into Turkey in the form of foreign exchange; (2) installations, machinery, tools, and instruments, or their spare parts, and such special construction materials as may be needed; (3) nonphysical assets, such as concessions, trademarks, and patents; and (4) profits converted into capital through reinvestment. Under this law, as amended, annual profits, interest, and dividends on approved investments and all or part of the invested capital or foreign loan may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Registered shares or stock certificates issued under this law are freely transferable between persons of all nationalities both in Turkey and abroad. The capital and interest of long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agri- cultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits as those described above for foreign investment. The Ministry of Finance can guarantee such loans to a total of LT 1 billion, subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. Changes during 1956 January 1. The Ministry of Trade issued additional regulations concerning imports on a credit basis. Documentary evidence would have to be presented to prove that such goods are in fact supplied on credit. Circular No. 1 and Circular No. 2 were issued by the Ministry of Finance as annexes to Decree No. 14, setting forth the procedures for export and import transactions, respectively. January 2. The regulations of the Ministry of Finance for transfer abroad of blocked funds under the deblockage system were amended to permit local exporters to export goods appearing on deblockage lists without having in their possession the deblockage permits given to holders of blocked funds. February 2. Circular No. 3 was issued by the Ministry of Finance as an annex to Decree No. 14, setting forth the procedure for imports without payment. August 16. The Ministry of Finance issued a circular setting forth the procedure for imports of books, newspapers, periodicals, etc. August 17. By a circular of the Ministry of Finance, a few items were added to the deblockage list. August 18. Certain rules concerning exports on credit and consign- ment were revised by a circular issued by the Ministry of Finance. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY August 29. By Decree No. 4/7854 of the Council of Ministers, £ Minister of State and the Minister of State Enterprises were included in the Committee of Ministers responsible for allocating foreign exchange to the private and public sectors, effecting transfers, etc. September 15. By Decree No. 1039, the rates of premiums to be paid out of the Equalization Account to the exporters of certain goods were revised. October 2. By Circular No. 6, annexed to Decree No. 14, rules were established concerning the procedures for the control and registration of the prices of import goods, and an office was set up to administer price control. October 8. By amendment of Articles 58 and 59 of Decree No. 14 and the issuance of circulars pursuant to the provisions of the amended Articles, special exchange rates of LT 5.25 buying, LT 5.75 selling, per US$1, were established for a variety of transactions, includ- ing those under the previous deblockage system. On the buying side, the exchange rate of LT 5.25 would apply to exchange proceeds arising from (1) specified secondary exports, foreign tourists, specified services, and repatriation of certain funds held abroad by residents. On the selling side, the exchange rate of LT 5.75 per US$1 Would apply to payments for specified services, patent eights, royalties, licensing arrangements, entertainment invited from abroad, cost of minor spare parts to be imported by certain industrialists Jor their own needs, and foreign travel for trade, business, or other similar purposes. October 20. In accordance with t)ecree No. 1047, ar premium of 35 per cent would be paid on the f.o.b. value of all cotton exports made during the 1956-57 export season and paid for in convertible foreign exchange, stealing, or EPU currencies. November 3. Pursuant to Circular No. 612 on foreign trade, issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, exporters of low-grade chrome and manganese could retain the foreign exchange proceeds from exports of these commodities and use such exchange to import machinery and spare parts conducive to mineral and agricultural production, other specified machinery and spare parts, specified indus- trial raw materials, and stocks. The retained exchange may be trans- ferred to another importer. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is South African Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are uniform and are based on the fixed rates for sterling-S.A. pounds (£SA 99/17/6 buying, £SA 100/7/6 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies, maintained between official limits. The rates for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1956 were US$2.79 buying, US$2.7725 selling, per £SA 1. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange or trade restrictions between the Union of South Africa, South West Africa, Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. These territories may be regarded as forming with the Union of South Africa a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce and Indus- tries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank, which in turn has delegated to the commercial banks some of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency All approved payments to and receipts from residents outside the Sterling Area must be made in the manner prescribed by the South African Treasury. For most transactions, the prescribed method is in sterling to or from an account related to the country or monetary area of the nonresident, following the United Kingdom's exchange control system; for several countries, payments or receipts may alterna- tively be in the appropriate local currency, e.g., for Canada or Ameri- can Account countries, in Canadian or U.S. dollars. 1 In view of the removal on February 28, 1957 of certain restrictions on Sterling Area transactions by residents (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the position as at that date. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Nonresident Accounts There are nonresident accounts for beneficiaries resident outside the Sterling Area, and Sterling Area accounts for beneficiaries resident in territories of the Sterling Area. Credits to the former are subject to control, and each deposit requires approval; withdrawals may be used to pay for exports to the country of the account holder, local payments, transfers to other Sterling Area territories or to the country of the account holder, and payments to a nonresident account of the same country or monetary area. Balances held in Sterling Area accounts may be used freely for local payments or transferred to any other terri- tory of the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments A number of items, including petrol and oil, textile piece goods below certain ceiling prices, and the products of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, may be imported freely; but all other imports require import licenses, which are valid for purchases from any country. There are, moreover, quantitative limitations on different types of imports. Thus, for raw materials, consumable stores, and maintenance spares, licenses are granted to importers on the basis of quotas fixed in accord- ance with previous consumption and estimated requirements; for gen- eral merchandise, licenses are granted to importers on the basis of their 1948 imports. Import licenses granted for general merchandise may be exchanged for permission to import an equivalent amount of certain goods on a "restricted" list. Likewise, general merchandise licenses may, under certain conditions, be used for importing a larger amount of certain goods on a "priority" list. Otherwise, the issuance of import licenses for goods on the "restricted" list and on the "priority" list is subject to administrative decision. An importer is granted exchange to pay for all goods legally im- ported, upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the transactions have been or will be properly effected; payment must be made in the prescribed manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments to residents of the Sterling Area.2 All payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area 2 During the period February 21, 1956 to February 28, 1957, payments exceeding £10,000 to other parts of the Sterling Area for noncommercial purposes required the approval of the Reserve Bank (see section on Changes during 1956, Febru- ary 21, below, and note at the end of this survey). 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most invisibles. Exchange to pay for travel expenses, membership fees, maintenance, etc., is granted liberally. Persons leaving South Africa may take £SA 20 in South African Reserve Bank notes and the equivalent of £SA 10 in other notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for exports of certain specific raw mate- rials in short supply and manufactures therefrom (Schedule A) to any destination other than Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. They are also required, for strategic reasons, for certain other goods (Schedule B) exported to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any British Dominion, Colony, Possession, Protec- torate, or Trust Territory, and the United States. Other goods (Sched- ule C) may be exported without a license. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and all foreign ex- change, except Sterling Area currencies, must be surrendered unless exemption is obtained. Export control procedures operate to assure this. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be received in the apropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and the foreign ex- change surrendered, unless exemption is obtained. Capital Proceeds of capital must be received in the appropriate manner and the foreign exchange surrendered. There are no restrictions on the transfer of capital by residents to other parts of the Sterling Area (but see footnote 2). Transfers of capital to countries outside the Ster- ling Area require approval. This is granted to emigrants within certain limits; otherwise, residents are not normally allowed to export capital. Capital transferred directly to the Union may be retransferred to the country of origin and in the currency in which the original transfer was received. Changes during 1956 January 1. Import licenses for general merchandise could be ex- changed for import licenses for goods on the "restricted" list at a ratio of 1 to 1, instead of 2 to 1, as previously. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA February 21. Certain measures were introduced which affected Ster- ling Area transactions by residents of the Union of South Africa. Export and other proceeds received in sterling or in other Sterling Area currencies had to be surrendered to authorized dealers in ex- change. Sterling continued to be made freely available for authorized imports and other current commercial transactions, but applications by residents for amounts exceeding £10,000 per capita or family unit for other purposes, including travel and the transfer of capital, required the approval of the Reserve Bank. However, transfers by members of a South African stock exchange to cover commitments in respect of purchases in London of South African shares could be made freely; for this purpose, the shares of companies registered in the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland which are listed on the London Stock Exchange or on both the London and the Johannesburg Stock Ex- change were regarded as "South African." Transfers of capital to the United Kingdom on South African account in excess of the exemption limit of £10,000 for the purchase of other securities were prohibited, unless the prior approval of the Reserve Bank was specifically obtained for the transfer of the excess amount required to purchase such securities. November 9. Revised import control regulations were published. The number of goods on the "restricted" list was reduced. Note. The restrictions outlined under February 21, above, were withdrawn on February 28, 1957, when residents of the Union of South Africa were again permitted to purchase Sterling Area currencies in any amount and for any purpose and hold such currencies in "resident" accounts in Sterling Area countries outside the Union of South Africa. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is United Kingdom Pound 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in most currencies dealt with in the United Kingdom are maintained between official limits corresponding to US$2.82 buying, US$2.78 selling, per £1. Official rates are quoted for the following currencies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Dan- ish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Exchange Equalization Account is authorized to operate in foreign markets where Transferable Account sterling is traded at a discount. In general, authorized banks are allowed to cover spot and forward exchange transactions at market rates against sterling in the London exchange market or with banks in the country of the currency concerned, where the authorities of that country have given their approval. In the United Kingdom there is a uniform exchange rate system based on the Fund par values or, for currencies without an agreed parity, on official rates. The United Kingdom participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Nor- way, Sweden, and Switzerland in a multilateral 'foreign exchange arbi- trage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with French banks), with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies (except free Swiss francs, Financial Account Belgian francs, and balances on other accounts which are freely convertible into gold or dollars within the terms of the exchange control regulations of the country concerned). The spot ex- change rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may undertake spot or forward exchange transactions (1) with resi- dents of countries in the Transferable Account Area, (a) in any speci- fied currency 2 of the Transferable Account Area except those which are freely convertible, against sterling in their Transferable Accounts, 1 In view of the various changes in the regulations connected with the resump- tion of dealings in Austrian schillings in the London market on January 2, 1957, this survey represents the position as at that date. 2 As from January 18, 1957, this facility was extended to cover all currencies of the Transferable Account Area, except those which are freely convertible. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM and (b) in U.S. and Canadian dollars, against sterling in their Regis- tered Accounts; (2) with residents of the American Account Area or Canada, in U.S. or Canadian dollars, against sterling in American or Canadian Accounts; and (3) with any nonresident, in U.S. dollars, against Canadian dollars. Authorized banks may also deal on a spot basis with banks in Brazil in Belgian francs, metropolitan French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, and Netherlands guilders against any of these currencies; and with banks in Argentina in Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, metropolitan French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs against any of these currencies. These facilities do not, however, extend to balances that are freely convertible under the exchange control regulations of the countries concerned, e.g., freely convertible deutsche mark, free Swiss francs, etc. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange con tro l); in addition to the United Kingdom, the Ster- ling Area comprises Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Ghana,3 Iceland, India, Iraq, the Irish Republic, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Libya, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, and the Union of South Africa, together with all British Colonies, Pro- tectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories. Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to the com- mercial banks, practically all of which are authorized for this purpose. Import and export licensing is handled by the Board of Trade.4 Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods and currencies for making payments to and receiving payments from countries outside the Sterling Area 3 Ghana (formerly fhe Gold Coast) became a sovereign state on March 6, 1957. 4 Export licensing in the United Kingdom, as in some other countries, is npt related to exchange control. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM is an integral part of the U.K. exchange control system and provides a mechanism for payments between all Sterling Area territories and the rest of the world. Payments to and receipts from countries with which the United Kingdom has negotiated Monetary Agreements,5 as well as the Italian Monetary Area, Austria, the American Account Area, and Canada, may be made either in sterling or in the currency of the paying/receiving country or monetary area. Payments to and from all other countries are effected predominantly in sterling; receipts may also be accepted in any specified currency,6 if freely offered and freely transferable to the United Kingdom. These arrangements are facilitated and controlled by dividing nonresident sterling accounts, according to the residence of the account holder into two main groups—Canada and American Account countries, and all other countries. General regula- tions show those transfers permitted between the various sterling accounts without reference to the exchange control authorities (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of persons, etc., resident in other parts of the Sterling Area (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are treated as those of residents. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control permission is required, but for payments to other countries the U.K. authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority of the territory concerned. The sterling accounts (other than Blocked Accounts—see Group 4, below) of nonresidents, i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area, are available for payments in the Sterling Area and for transfers to other nonresidents, as described below. Additional transferability is achieved by granting licenses to effect payments outside the prescribed arrangements. 5 Countries (monetary areas) covered by these Monetary Agreements are as follows: Belgian Monetary Area, Denmark (with Faroe Islands and Greenland), French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany (and British, French, and U.S. Sectors of Berlin), Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sweden, and Switzerland (and Liechtenstein). 6 These specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Belgian Congo francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, francs of the French Franc Area, French Somali Coast (Djibouti) francs, Indo-Chinese piastres, Italian lire, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands, Nether- lands Antilles, and Surinam guilders, Norwegian kroner, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1. American Accounts (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Do- minican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela) and Canadian Accounts. These accounts may be debited freely for payments to any sterling account (other than a Blocked Account). Balances on American Accounts and Canadian Accounts may be converted freely into Canadian or U.S. dollars or used to purchase gold through the London market. 2. Transferable Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area except Groups 1 and 5). Payments from Transferable Accounts may be made freely to any account related to the Transferable Account Area (other than a Blocked Account) and to Egyptian Accounts. Transfer- able Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. 3. Registered Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area except Group 1). These accounts are intended primarily for entries related to the purchase and sale of gold in the London market. In addition, Registered Accounts are freely convertible into Canadian or U.S. dollars. They may be credited with the proceeds of the sale of Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom or with transfers from Canadian or American Accounts, and are avail- able for transfers to any sterling account, including payments to resi- dents in settlement of U.K. exports to any destination. 4. Blocked Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area except Denmark, Norway, and Sweden—residents of these three countries may transfer all their sterling assets to their respective countries). The purpose of these accounts is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United King- dom securities that are payable in a Sterling Area currency, cannot be redeemed under any contractual provision within five years from the date of acquisition, and are not optionally payable in dollars. The income from such securities, and the maturity proceeds of any that are redeemable, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are permitted freely, and Blocked Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. 5. Egyptian Accounts (Egyptian Monetary Area). These accounts may be credited with transfers from nonresident accounts other than Egyptian Accounts or Blocked Accounts. They may be debited for cer- tain commitments contracted prior to July 28, 1956, and for cash 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM drawings by the account holder or, on his instructions, for living expenses in the United Kingdom, up to £100 per week. Imports and Import Payments Imports on government account are not subject to import license, but imports on private account are subject to one of the following types of import license: World Open General License (which permits any importer to import the goods covered by the license in any quantity from any country), Open General License (which permits any im- porter to import the goods covered by the license in any quantity from specified countries), Open Individual License (which permits an indi- vidual person or firm to import the goods specified in any quantity from the countries specified), and Individual Import License (which permits a specific import transaction by the person, for the goods, and from the country specified in the license). Subject to the submission of evidence of importation or, if this has not yet taken place, the relevant import license and evidence of value and of purchase, foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident sterling account appropriate to the country of origin of the goods is granted automatically for imports. For imports of goods from, and originating in, any country outside the Sterling Area—other than Canada, a country in the American Account Area, or the Egyptian Monetary Area —payment may be made in sterling to the credit of a Transferable Account or in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or the country of the seller, if the currency is a specified cur- rency (see footnote 6). For imports of goods from, and originating in, Canada or a country in the American Account Area, payment may be made to the credit of an American or Canadian Account or in Canadian or U.S. dollars. For imports of goods from or originating in the Egyptian Monetary Area, payment must be made to an Egyptian Account. For imports from other parts of the Sterling Area, payment may be made freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency, and no documentation is necessary for exchange control purposes. Commodity Markets and Transit Trade 7 There are special schemes to facilitate commodity market trans- actions. The arrangements are as follows: 7 In this section, "dollars" includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, sterling from Canadian and American Accounts, and, in the case of receipts, sterling from Reg- istered Accounts; "sold for sterling" includes settlement in sterling from a Trans- ferable Account or in any specified currency (see footnote 6). 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1. Cotton, grain, and refined sugar may be sold for sterling unless purchased for dollars, in which case they may be sold only for dollars. 2. Cocoa, coffee, and raw sugar of any origin, including the dollar area, may be sold for sterling except that, where these commodities are of neither Sterling Area nor dollar area origin and are purchased for dollars, they may be resold only for dollars. 3. Copra, rubber, copper, lead, tin, and zinc, regardless of origin, may be sold anywhere for sterling. All commodities covered by the commodity market schemes must be sold for dollars when shipped to the dollar area. The export of these commodities to destinations outside the Sterling Area is subject to normal export requirements, but reimbursement in dollars is required for exports of cotton and grain of dollar area origin. Sugar refined in the United Kingdom may be exported to the Transferable Account Area against payment in sterling, regardless of the origin of the raw sugar used in its manufacture. Apart from the facilities for organized market transactions described above, trading in goods originating outside the Sterling Area and not imported into the Sterling Area (except for transshipment) may be arranged on the basis that where payment is made in dollars, receipts must be obtained in dollars. When the Sterling Area trader makes payment in other currencies, receipts must be obtained in dollars from purchasers in the dollar area, but from purchasers in other countries receipts are acceptable in dollars, in Transferable Account sterling, or in any specified currency. Payments for Invisibles An exchange license is required for all payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area, but the completion of an exchange control form is not required for the discharge of commercial debts or the payment of professional fees not exceeding £250. These licenses normally are granted, without discrimination as to recipient countries, for payments under contracts entered into up to September 3,1939 and under contracts entered into with appro'val since that date. Films, however, are covered by special agreement. Applications for licenses for noncontractual payments are considered on their merits and some are subject to monetary limitations. In a few instances, noncontractual payments are subject also to discrimination as to the recipient country —e.g., in the case of tourists' expenses. A basic travel allowance of £100 for each person of 12 years of age or over and £70 for each child 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM under 12 years of age for the period November 1, 1956 to October 31, 1957 is available for use in all countries except the American Account Area and Canada. However, Canadian or U.S. dollars equivalent to £7 per journey may be sold as part of the basic allowance for inci- dental expenses of those traveling through countries in the dollar area en route to, and/or from, countries in which the basic allowance is available. A similar allowance is available to those traveling through countries in the dollar area en route between countries in the Sterling Area, who are not using the basic allowance or any other special allotment of currency. For travel to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, bona fide travelers may obtain "any reasonable amount" of appropri- ate exchange. The basic travel allowance is exclusive of the payment of fares, the cost of which is not limited for travel in countries outside the American Account Area and Canada, provided payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom. No limits are placed on the cost of fares to and from the American Account Area and Canada, provided the journey is by a normal, direct route. Not more than £10 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom, except by persons traveling directly to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. A cer- tain freedom in exchange operations is granted to the insurance market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries outside the Sterling Area are permitted without specific exchange control approval, provided the proceeds are received in a prescribed or other permissible manner. For exports to the Ameri- can Account Area or Canada, payment must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars-or in sterling from an American, Canadian, or Regis- tered Account. For exports to any other country outside the Sterling Area, payment must be received in sterling from an American, Canadian, or Registered Account, or a Transferable Account, or in any specified currency that is freely offered and is freely transferable to the United Kingdom. The exchange control procedure is waived for exports (other than private gifts in kind) not exceeding £500 f.o.b. Exchange receipts in specified currencies must be offered to an authorized bank. Apart from the exchange control requirements, certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, and all exports to Mainland China, require export licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be sur- rendered. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained in controlled accounts if it is required for operating purposes. Not more 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM than £10 in British banknotes may be brought into the United King- dom, except by persons traveling directly from the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. Capital Transfers of resident capital to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which normally is granted for commercial investment that promises to employ Sterling Area skills or techniques or to assist Sterling Area exports or the production of raw materials. Permission may be obtained for the investment of foreign currency capital receipts in marketable securities expressed in foreign currency, but any such receipts in a specified currency which have not been invested within six months must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign exchange or permission to credit sterling to a nonresident account related to his country or monetary area is granted freely for repayments abroad due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations; otherwise, the proceeds of nonresident-owned capital may be credited only to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). However, residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden may transfer their capital freely to their respective countries. Persons resident outside the Sterling Area who make direct invest- ments in the United Kingdom must provide appropriate foreign ex- change, or sterling from a nonresident account other than a Blocked Account appropriate to their country of residence. Capital directly invested by a nonresident after January 1, 1950 in projects approved by the exchange control authorities may be repatriated at any time, together with capital profits. Nonresidents may buy sterling securities on a recognized stock ex- change in the United Kingdom against payment appropriate to their country of residence or, if the securities cannot be redeemed under any contractual provision within five years f rom the date of purchase, with sterling from a Blocked Account, except that prescribed securities 8 may be purchased only with sterling from an American, Canadian, or Registered Account, or with U.S. or Canadian dollars sold to an author- ized bank. Nonresidents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) or reinvested in a Ster- ling Area security having at least five years to maturity (special rules 8 Prescribed securities are those which are payable, or carry the option of pay- ment of principal or interest, in U.S. or Canadian dollars. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, divi- dends, etc., from such securities and the maturity proceeds of any that are redeemable may be remitted to, or credited to, a sterling account appropriate to the country of residence of the owner. Nonresidents may purchase officially quoted non-sterling securities (other than prescribed securities) against sterling from an appropriate nonresident account. Such securities may not be resold on a stock ex- change in the United Kingdom but may be exported. Residents may obtain permission to sell outside the Sterling Area securities expressed in foreign currency and to reinvest the proceeds in other marketable securities expressed in foreign currency, but if the securities sold are U.S. or Canadian dollar securities, the securities pur- chased must be U.S. or Canadian dollar marketable securities. Any sale proceeds in a specified currency which have not been reinvested within six months must be sold to an authorized bank. Banknotes The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign notes and coins, within certain limitations, at market rates of exchange. Purchases of foreign notes and coins from residents of the Sterling Area may be made without limitation, but purchases from persons resident out- side the Sterling Area are limited to reasonable amounts for their current maintenance expenses while in the United Kingdom. The authorized banks may purchase Canadian or U.S. dollar notes from anyone, but they may purchase currencies of the Transferable Account Area only from residents of that Area. Authorized banks may, under certain conditions, sell foreign notes and coins for travel outside the Sterling Area, but without special permission travelers may not take out of the United Kingdom foreign currency notes in excess of the equivalent of £100 per traveler or, if the traveler is a visitor, the amount he brought into the United Kingdom in foreign currency notes. Changes during 1956 February 27. The exchange control procedure was waived for all exports not exceeding £250 f.o.b., other than private gifts in kind. April 30. The term for permissible forward exchange transactions in currencies included in the Western European multilateral arbitrage arrangement was extended from three months to six months, except for transactions in French francs or with French banks. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM May 9. Further authority was delegated to authorized banks to establish, open, advise, or notify certain additional types of letter of credit and to give certain guarantees, without specific approval from the Bank of England in each case. May 12. Authorized banks were permitted to authorize applications by residents of the United Kingdom to make payments to other resi- dents on behalf of nonresidents. The authorized bank must be satis- fied that the funds in question are eligible for transfer to the non- resident concerned, and that the payment is either to discharge a liability of the nonresident to the U.K. resident, or an outright gift. June I. As a result of the inclusion of Italy in the multilateral trade and payments arrangements with Brazil, authorized banks were per- mitted to deal spot with banks in Brazil in Italian lire against the currencies of the other participants. June 27. The authority of authorized banks in the United Kingdom to deal spot and forward with banks abroad was extended to cover cer- tain dealings direct with all nonresidents, including individuals and private institutions. However, such transactions remained subject to the current exchange restrictions applicable in the United Kingdom. The additional authority permitted the following: (1) transactions with residents of the Transferable Account Area in specified currencies (except U.S. and Canadian dollars, Philippine pesos, Panamanian dol- lars, free Swiss francs, Belgian francs in Financial Accounts, and other balances in non-dollar currencies which, in the country concerned, are freely convertible into gold or dollars), against Transferable Account sterling, provided the monetary authorities in the country concerned will permit the transfer; (2) transactions with residents of Canada and the American Account Area in forward Canadian or U.S. dollars, against Canadian or American Account sterling; (3) transactions with all persons resident outside the Sterling Area in U.S. dollars against Canadian dollars on a forward basis; and (4) buying and selling U.S. or Canadian dollars forward against Registered Account sterling. July 2. As a result of the introduction of a multilaterally based system of trade and payments by Argentina, authorized banks were permitted to deal on a spot basis with banks in Argentina in Belgian francs, Danish kroner, metropolitan French francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs, against any of these currencies. Dealings with banks in Argentina in the various European currencies against sterling had been authorized previously (see June 27, above). 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM July 24. Authorized banks were permitted to authorize the payment of certain refunds of sums previously received in payment for exports f rom the United Kingdom, advance payments for imports on consign- ment, and payments for royalties for literary and musical works. July 27. The Egyptian Monetary Area was excluded from the Trans- ferable Account Area, and accounts held by residents of the Egyptian Monetary Area were designated Egyptian Accounts, the debiting of which was made subject to prior approval of the exchange control authorities for practically all transactions. August 13. The Italian Monetary Area was included in the multi- lateral payments arrangements with Argentina, and the Italian lira was added to the currencies in which authorized banks could deal with banks in Argentina on a spot basis (see July 2, above). September 3. The French Franc Area was included in the multi- lateral payments arrangements with Brazil, and metropolitan French francs were added to the currencies in which authorized banks could deal with banks in Brazil on a spot basis. October 10. Further authority was delegated to authorized banks (see May 9, above) to establish, open, advise, or notify certain addi- tional types of letter of credit and to give certain guarantees and overdrafts, without specific approval from the Bank of England in each case. October 22. Exchange control formalities for small transactions were simplified. For transactions with countries outside the Sterling Area, limits of exemption from completing export declarations and Sterling Transfer Forms and Forms E were established, as follows: (1) for exports, at £500 (previously £250) per transaction; (2) for imports, at £250 per import; and (3) for the discharge of commercial debts or the payment of professional fees, at £250. Private gifts in kind for amounts exceeding £25 in value continued to require export declarations. October 24. The general authority to authorized banks to sell ster- ling securities owned by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden for remittance of the proceeds was withdrawn and all applications had to be submitted to the Bank of England. November 1. The limit on the amount of foreign currency notes which travelers leaving the United Kingdom may take with them was raised from the equivalent of £25 to the equivalent of £100. Otherwise, the amount of the basic travel allowances remained unchanged for the period from November 1, 1956 to October 31, 1957. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM December 31. It was announced that, with effect from January 2, 1957, Austrian schillings would become a specified currency and (except for "free" schillings) would be included in the Western Euro- pean multilateral arbitrage arrangement and in the multilateral pay- ments arrangements with Argentina. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System No par value for the Uruguayan Peso has been established with the Fund. There is a basic rate of Ur$1.519 per US$1, which applies to government payments and to a few exports and imports. Another selling rate of Ur$2.10 per US$1 applies to certain essential imports. To obtain exchange for all other imports, a certificate must be pur- chased at a fluctuating free market rate. These certificates are issued to exporters for a certain percentage of their export proceeds—the percentage depending on the nature of the commodity exported— giving rise to numerous effective mixing rates for such exports. An exchange tax of 6 per cent is payable on most imports and related services. Surcharges of Ur$0.50, Ur$1.50, or Ur$2.00, per US$1, apply to imports of certain less essential items. A tax ol 1 per cent is applied to export proceeds. There is also a separate fluctuating free market for exchange for invisibles and capital transactions. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Bank of the Republic. Exchange transactions related to imports, exports, and some invisibles pass through the authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Office of Export and Import Control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral pay- ments agreements or interbank compensation agreements are made through accounts kept in specified currencies, as follows: with Belgium, Sweden, and Switzerland, in the currency of the partner country; with Argentina, Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Paraguay, Poland, Spain, and Yugoslavia, in accounting dollars; and with the U.S.S.R., in transfer- able sterling. Settlements with other countries are made in the currency indicated in the license. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified in three categories. Goods in Category I may be imported freely, the importer providing only a "sworn declaration" for purposes of price control and statistics. Imports of goods in Categories II and III require licenses that are granted within the global 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY exchange quotas established by the Bank of the Republic. Import licenses that are issued for any one of the following groups of countries are valid for any country in that group: Group 1—the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom and colonies; Group 2—Canada, the United States, and other countries of the dollar area; Group 3—Austria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Switzerland, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. The global quotas are distributed by fixing an individual exchange quota for each importer and by issuing import licenses up to the limit of each quota. Exchange quotas for dollar goods are not necessarily given in dollars; sometimes they are given in inconvertible currencies if there is a surplus of the latter. Payments for imports of specified goods in Category I are effected at the Ur$2.10 rate. Certain items are imported at a special effective rate of Ur$3.00 per US$1. Payments for all other imports are effected through the certificate market. Payments for most imports are subject to a 6 per cent exchange tax. Payments for imports in Categories II and III are subject to exchange surcharges, in pesos per U.S. dollar, as follows: Category II, Ur$0.50 for truck chassis of less than two tons and Ur$1.50 for all other imports in Category II; Category III, Ur$2>00. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles covered by a payments agreement and involving the sale of exchange by the Bank of the Republic require the Bank's approval. Expenditures in foreign exchange incidental to imports are authorized together with the payments for the correspond- ing imports, and are subject to a 6 per cent exchange tax if the merchandise for which the expenditure is made is subject to this tax. All other payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are granted if the exchange pro- ceeds have been sold contractually to an authorized bank. However, exports of essential goods in short supply may be prohibited. Exports of nonmanufactured goods are classified into the following 11 groups, to which different mixing arrangements apply: Group A: Pedigreed cattle, cheese, frozen lamb, fresh fruit, etc. Group B: Rice, pork and pork by-products, fresh vegetables, honey, wines, and other agricultural products 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Group C: Canned fish, fish flour, tiles, sand and gravel, cured hides, etc. Group D: Rags Group E: Barley, oats, marble, granite, etc. Group F: Dolomite Group G: Dried cattle hides Group H: (no goods) Group I: Raw wool, unprocessed bristle, etc. Group J: Sheepskin Group K: Salted cattle hides Exports proceeds of manufactured goods are treated as follows: The portion of the proceeds corresponding to the raw material content receive the effective import or export rate that applies to that raw material (import rate in the case of imported raw material, export rate in the case of domestic raw material); the remaining portion of the exchange proceeds receives the certificate market rate (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). There is an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to the exchange proceeds of all exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free. The corresponding exchange transactions may take place freely in the free market. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956)1 (pesos per UJ3. dollar) URUGUAY Buying 1.519 Group K exports. 2.10 Exports of frozen beef. 2.48 Exports of processed meat. 3.80 Exports of canned meat and salted hides. 1.778-4.0402 Exports in Groups J to B and exports of manufactured products. 3.79 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All invisibles. Capital. 4.10 (Fluctuating Certificate Market Rate) Group A exports. Selling 1.519 Government payments. Imports of newsprint, inks, cardboard matrix, and seed potatoes. 2.10 Specified Category I imports (essential goods). 3.00 (Special Effective Rate) Imports of fertilizers, books, cigarette paper, raw tobacco, etc. 3.82 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Certain invisibles. Capital. 4.10 (Fluctuating Certificate Market Rate) Other Category I imports. 4.60 (Fluctuating Certificate Market Rate plus Ur$0.50 Surcharge) Imports of truck chassis of less than two tons (Category II). 5.60 (Fluctuating Certificate Market Rate plus Ur$1.50 Surcharge) Other Category II imports. 6.10 (Fluctuating Certificate Market Rate plus Ur$2.00 Surcharge) Category III imports. Changes during 1956 January 9. The export premium of Ur$0.21 per US$1 for raw wool was extended to April 30,1956. January 10. An exchange rate of Ur$2.25 per US$1 was established for exports of dried cattle hides. 1 This table does not take account of the exchange taxes of 1 per cent on export proceeds and 6 per cent on most payments abroad related to imports. 2 A range of 33 different effective exchange rates obtained, in most cases, by mixing percentages at the Ur$1.519 rate and/or the Ur$2.10 rate with the fluctuat- ing certificate market rate. Some of the effective rates applicable to the more important exports, as at December 31, 1956, were Ur$1.906 (greasy wool), Ur$2.035 (washed wool), Ur$2.319 (wool tops and by-products). 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY February 1. An exchange rate of Ur$1.78 per US$1 was established for exports of linseed oil and its by-products. March 5. It was established that merchandise covered by import permits authorized under agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Paraguay, Switzerland, and Turkey should be imported exclusively from the country specified in such a permit. A similar regulation was issued concerning import permits for goods valued at US$1,000 (or equivalent) or more, under agreements with Austria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Poland, and Yugoslavia. April 6. Several foreign countries were divided into three groups for the purpose of applying new import regulations. It was established that import permits issued for a group would be valid for imports from any country in that group. The grouping was as follows: Group 1— the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom and colonies; Group 2 —Canada, the United States, and other countries of the dollar area; Group 3—Austria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Switzerland, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. April 10. A new trade and payments agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany became effective. It established, among other things, that payments between the two countries would be made in partly convertible deutsche mark, instead of in accounting dollars, as previously. April 30. A premium of Ur$0.07 per US$1 was established for exports of raw wool, effective from May 1, 1956 to July 31, 1956. It was also established that the premium of Ur$0.14 for exports of wool tops should continue to apply until July 30,1956 and a premium of Ur$0.047 should be applied to those exports from July 31, 1956 to September 30, 1956. July 12. The following exchange rates were introduced, to be effective until December 31,1956: Ur$2.35 per US$1 for exports of frozen mutton and pork; Ur$3.21 per US$1 for exports of frozen bee f; Ur$3.80 per US$1 for exports of canned beef. July 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was terminated. August 20. An exchange reform went into effect, providing for a free certificate market for imports and exports. Eleven groups were estab- lished for exports of nonmanufactured products, each group receiving a mixing rate resulting from the combination of the Ur$1.519 rate and/or the Ur$2.10 rate with the free certificate rate in different proportions. Mixing rates were also established for exports of manu- 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY factured goods, the arrangement being that the portion of the exchange proceeds corresponding to the raw material component would be negotiated at the effective export or import rate applicable to the raw material (export rate in the case of a domestic raw material and import rate in the case of an imported raw material), and the remaining portion would be negotiated at the free certificate rate. The existing exchange rates for exports of meat were to remain the same. Imports were divided into three categories. Specified Category I imports (essential goods) would receive exchange at the Ur$2.10 rate, others in this category being transacted through the free certificate market. Category II and III imports would be transacted through the free certificate market. Surcharges were to be established on Categories II and III, and the proceeds from them were to be applied to the maintenance of an effective Ur$3.00 rate for a few specified Category I imports through the free certificate market. Various advance deposits on imports were also established. August 31. It was established that imports of seeds effected by the Official Services for the Distribution of Seeds could be made at the Ur$2.10 rate. September 4. Certain types of books were included in the group of imports which could be made at an effective rate of Ur$3.00 per US$1. September 5. Cured hides, dried cattle hides, and salted cattle hides were included in Groups C, G, and K, respectively, of the export classification. September 6. Cigarette paper and raw tobacco were included in the group of imports which could be made at an effective rate of Ur$3.00 per US$1. October 23. The bilateral payments agreement with Colombia was terminated. October 27. The percentages of exchange to be negotiated at different exchange rates were established for exports of a number of manufac- tured products, including washed wool, wool tops, rubber articles, etc. October 30. The percentages of exchange to be negotiated at different rates were established for exports of by-products of wool tops. November 19. A new trade and payments agreement with the Netherlands came into, effect. It established, among other things, that all payments between the two countries would be made in transferable guilders, instead of in accounting dollars, as previously. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY November 28. The bilateral payments agreement with Austria was terminated. November 30. Exchange surcharges on import payments, in pesos per U.S. dollar, were established as follows: Category II, Ur$0.50 for truck chassis of less than two tons and Ur$1.50 for all other goods in this category; Category III, Ur$2.00. December 10. The percentages of exchange to be negotiated at different exchange rates were established for exports of a few minor manufactured products. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Viet-Namese Piastre. The official rate is VN$35 per US$1; most trade transactions and certain trans- actions in invisibles take place at this rate. There is also an official free market, through which certain other invisibles may be settled; the rate in this market as at December 31, 1956 was VN$74.50 per US$1. An effective rate of around VN$48 per US$1 arises jrom the negotiation of 66 per cent of the proceeds from exports of rice at the official rate and 34 per cent at the free market rate; for proceeds from exports of tea, 100 French francs per kilogram must be surrendered at the official rate. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office (a department of the National Bank of Viet-Nam) in accordance with the general policies of the Ministry of Finance. All remittances must have the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Import and exchange controls on goods financed by U.S. aid are carried out by the Directorate-General of Trade and the National Bank. Other imports must be approved by the Directorate-General of Trade as well as the National Exchange Office, except for imports financed with "triangular" francs (i.e., goods bought with U.S. counterpart funds in French f ranc s ), which are exclusively within the scope of the Directorate-General of Trade. Export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade and require also the approval of the National Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts through the official market or through the free market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks and in the currency stipulated in the license. Payments to or receipts from Cambodia and Laos (with which Viet-Nam has bilateral payments agreements) are, in principle, effected through special accounts held by the central banks of these countries. In trade with these countries, tied import-export transactions ("simultaneous exchanges") are authorized. Compensation transactions are authorized with Hong Kong and Singapore. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the National Exchange Office. All transactions through these accounts require prior approval. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Imports and Import Payment* Imports are subject to prior licensing. Applications to import are sent through an authorized bank to the Directorate-General of Trade, which examines them in the light of available foreign exchange and conformity with an import plan prepared by an interministerial com- mission. An importer must post bond of at least VN$350,000 for each type of commodity he wishes to import. Requests for foreign exchange may be submitted only once a quarter. Only three licenses will be granted to each applicant. An importer who has obtained foreign ex- change in order to import a certain type of commodity may not transfer his foreign exchange or sell this type of commodity to another person or firm. Goods must be imported in accordance with the time limit, quantity, and quality specified in the import license. Importers must have storage facilities for the goods they import. Payments for Invisibles All outgoing payments require the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. For certain payments—such as government expenses, incidental charges on imports, insurance premiums and indemnities, students' expenses, and savings of foreign technicians—exchange is granted at the official rate by the National Exchange Office. Also with the approval of the National Exchange Office, payments for certain items—such as transfers of profits of foreign enterprises, personal sav- ings of resident foreigners other than foreign technicians, tourist and medical expenses, and family allocations—may be made through the official free market. Foreign currencies may be transferred direct, after the foreign exchange has been purchased in the official free market, or the authorized individual or enterprise may open a transferable piastre account. Such transferable piastres may be held no longer than three months. Travelers are permitted to take with them VN$400 in Viet-Namese banknotes. Foreign banknotes and credit instruments not used by foreign travelers may be taken out of the country by making a declaration to the customs supported by evidence that any utilized foreign exchange has been sold to an authorized bank at the appropriate rate. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license, and must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange and the correct utilization of the EFAC accounts (see below). 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VBET-NAM The exchange proceeds of most exports must be surrendered at the official rate. Sixty-six per cent of the proceeds from exports of rice are settled at the official rate and 34 per cent at the free market rate. For the proceeds from exports of tea, 100 French francs per kilogram must be surrendered at the official rate. Some goods may be exported on a compensation basis, either in exchange for equivalent imports or by surrender of 50 or 70 per cent of the export value. Exports of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam are prohibited. Under a special export retention scheme, exporters are permitted to retain, in EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, 15 per cent of the foreign currency derived from their exports to all areas. Of this 15 per cent, 12 per cent may be used for imports included in a list prepared by the Directorate-General of Trade and the remaining 3 per cent may be used for most purposes, including payment for any type of import; but the utilization of EFAC accounts requires the approval of the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from most transactions in invisibles may be sold at the official free market rate. Tourists, philanthropic organiza- tions, and foreign governments may sell their foreign exchange in the official free market to cover their expenses in Viet-Nam. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange that may be brought into the country, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may not bring in more than VN$400 in Viet-Namese banknotes. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Special provision is made for the repatriation of French-owned capital. The import of foreign- owned capital and of resident-owned funds held abroad is permitted freely in the form of gold, provided no payment of foreign exchange is made. Capital held in piastres by nonresident foreigners may be sold to other nonresident foreigners for foreign exchange at a negotiated rate without prior approval, provided the purchaser places the newly acquired piastres in a capital account with an authorized bank. Piastres held in such accounts are blocked and may be used only for investment in certain branches of economic activity and only with the approval of the National Exchange Office, 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Changes during 1956 January 1. An official parity of VN$35 per US$1 was declared for the Viet-Namese piastre. January 21. A payments agreement with Laos was signed. February. Imports of certain items, such as automobiles valued at over US$2,200 f.o.b., liquors, beer, bicycles, canned fruit, wheat flour and milk products (except from the United States), cigarettes, wrist watches, perfume, radios valued at over US$30, and sugar (except im- ports financed by U.S. aid), were suspended indefinitely. April 20. All transfers of property in Viet-Nam by gift or sale to any foreign person or enterprise and all leases to them for more than ten years were made subject to presidential authorization. June 14. The proportion of foreign exchange which exporters could retain was set at 15 per cent for all currencies, of which 12 per cent was to be used for specified imports and the remaining 3 per cent could be used for most purposes. (Prior to this, these arrangements applied only to proceeds from exports to the French Franc Area and the dollar area, while 10 per cent of proceeds from exports to the Sterling Area and from exports settled in inconvertible currencies could be retained, of which 7 per cent was to be used for certain imports and 3 per cent could be used freely.) July 1. The following import regulations became effective: (1) The importer must have a store or warehouse to hold the goods imported. (2) The importer must post a bond of at least VN$350,000 to import each type of commodity. (3) Requests for foreign exchange could be submitted only once a quarter. Only three licenses would be granted to each applicant. (4) An importer who has obtained foreign exchange in order to import a certain type of commodity could not transfer his foreign exchange or sell this type of commodity to another person or firm. (5) Goods must be imported in accordance with the time limit, quantity, and quality specified in the import license. Some categories of importer considered as end-users were exempted from certain of these requirements. July 1. Nonresident foreigners holding Viet-Namese piastres were permitted to sell them to other nonresident foreigners without prior approval of the National Exchange Office, provided the piastres were deposited with an authorized bank in a capital account in the name of the buyer. Utilization of capital accounts would require approval of 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM the National Exchange Office, which would be given only for invest- ments in certain types of economic activity. July 2. A free exchange market was established. The profits of foreign enterprises, the savings of resident foreigners other than tech- nicians, and tourist and medical expenses could be transferred only through this market. Holders (other than exporters) of foreign ex- change could sell their exchange to authorized banks at the free market rate, but direct transactions with other private persons were prohibited. Persons authorized to make transfers through the free market could purchase exchange from authorized banks at the free market rate. They could either have the authorized transfers made immediately, or they could open an account in transferable piastres. Transfers had, however, to be completed within three months of the date of authorization. September 12. The import of gold without payment of foreign ex- change was permitted freely, subject to declaration for taxation purposes. September 21. Viet-Nam became a member of the International Monetary Fund. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Yugoslav Dinars 300 = US$1. This rate is used for foreign debt service, for payments for other invisibles by govern- ment organs and institutions,1 for receipts from a few other invisibles, and for incoming and outgoing capital. Multiple currency practices apply to other transactions (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The Din 300 rate is used to pay for imports by government organs and institutions, but coefficients (a form of multiplier—see below) are applied to this rate. Imports of some essential food items (wheat and fats) are, however, effected at the official rate without the application of a coefficient, but if the domestic price is higher than the foreign price, the importer is, in principle, required to pay an Additional amount equivalent to the difference between the foreign and the domestic price. "Settlement" rates, fixed for several currencies, form the basic rates for export proceeds and payments for imports, including the related invisibles, of economic organizations. Various coefficients apply to these settlement rates. Imports for essential investment projects financed from Investment Funds (i.e., the approved investment expenditures of economic organizations) are affected at the settlement rates, with- out the application of coefficients but subject to a revaluation factor (1.00 as at December 31, 1956). The National Bank sells exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts needed by most industries and for imports of specified commodities and of consumer goods at "special meetings" held at the settlement places. The rates for this exchange are, in principle, determined on an auction basis, with purchasers bidding for exchange; in practice, however, there is no bid- ding and the National Bank sells the exchange at the settlement rates. The settlement rates involve broken cross rates for some of the foreign currencies that are quoted. As at December 31, 1956, the settlement rates for the U.S. dollar and sterling were Din 632 per US$1 and Din 1,752 per £1. Various coefficients apply to the settlement rates. The National Bank also sells exchange for the needs of economic organizations in a free market (referred to as "regular meetings" of the settlement places) at fluctuating rates. All economic organizations have a right to buy foreign exchange in this market but, since foreign 1 This group includes Federal departments and departments of the Republics and the Communes, independent institutions, institutions with their own financing, and various social organizations. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA exchange for investment needs and imports of raw materials and spare parts is allocated by the Yugoslav Investment Bank or the National Bank at fixed rates more favorable than the free market rates, demand in the free market is usually limited to a few marginal payments. Import and export coefficients (multipliers) are fixed for different import and export commodities and applied to the relevant exchange rates. For imports by government organs and institutions, the coeffi- cients are applied to the official rates; for imports by economic organizations, they are applied to the settlement rates. As at Decem- ber 31, 1956, there were 19 import coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0, and 35 export coefficients, ranging also from 0.5 to 3.0. Import coefficients are applied at the time of import and export coefficients are applied at the time payment for the merchandise exported or the services rendered is received. The use of a premium of 33% per cent of the official rate yields an effective rate of Din 400 per US$1 for receipts from tourism (and the retransfer of unspent amounts) and from diplomatic and other foreign missions, and the official rate plus 100 per cent yields an effective rate of Din 600 per US$1 for emigrants' remittances, inheri- tances, exchange for private travel, and other specified noncommercial receipts and payments. Administration of Control The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions governing foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Committee for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing exchange transactions of a commercial nature. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes provisions governing exchange transactions of a noncommercial nature. The Committee for Foreign Trade determines the coefficients and the amounts of foreign exchange to be surrendered to the National Bank, regulates exports and imports of goods, and prescribes conditions governing exports and imports of specified categories of goods. The National Bank is the operative organ of the exchange control, and in addition prescribes the methods for payments to and receipts from foreign countries. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions have to be effected through the National Bank or other authorized banks, such as the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade. The National Bank sells exchange direct to government organs and institutions and private persons, as well as at the "special meetings" and "regular meetings" of the Foreign Exchange Settlement Places. Foreign exchange for 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA investments of economic organizations is sold by the Yugoslav Invest- ment Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments are made according to the method or channel of payment provided for in the payments agreement with the country concerned.2 If no agreement exists, payment is usually made in U.S. or Canadian dollars, sterling, or Swiss francs. Nonresident Accounts The opening of nonresident accounts is subject to the approval of the National Bank. In granting such approval, the National Bank stipulates the conditions under which the accounts may be operated. In general, the dinar account of a nonresident individual may be utilized by the account holder only to cover expenses of his stay in Yugoslavia; the use of such balances for commercial operations is not permitted. Nonresident accounts may be opened also with foreign exchange imported into Yugoslavia, and these foreign exchange balances may be used within Yugoslavia for payments in dinars for commercial or private purposes; their transfer abroad is subject to individual license from the National Bank. Imports and Import Payments Importing is confined to economic organizations registered on the Foreign Trade Register as authorized to engage specifically in import business. Institutions, social organizations, and economic organizations not on the Foreign Trade Register may effect individual imports if they are granted a license to that effect. Payments for practically all imports are made with exchange acquired from the National Bank or, for imports for investment projects financed from Investment Funds, from the Yugoslav Investment Bank. Import coefficients are applied to most imports at the time of import; these coefficients are determined on the basis that their application to the relevant rate of exchange equalizes the domestic price of the product with the foreign price (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). 2 Yugoslavia has payments agreements with Albania, Argentina, Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Burma, Chile, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uruguay, and ILS.S.R. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to payments for merchan- dise. Exchange for payments by government organs and institutions and for foreign debt service is allocated by the National Bank at the official rate. Exchange for travel, up to the equivalent of Din 6,000 per person, and for remittances for family maintenance is allocated by the National Bank at the official rate plus 100 per cent. Not more than Din 3,000 in Yugoslav banknotes, in notes of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a number of goods are prohibited; all other goods may be exported freely. Ninety-nine per cent of export proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank at the settlement rates. The remain- ing 1 per cent may be used by exporters for expenses abroad incidental to their own transactions, for imports they need, and for other payments of their own abroad; if not used, this exchange may only be sold to the National Bank at the settlement rates. However, economic organi- zations acting as commercial agencies in international trade have to surrender only 50 per cent of their foreign exchange earnings to the National Bank; the remaining 50 per cent may be used for expenses abroad incidental to their transactions, for other payments of their own abroad, and for their own imports. Export coefficients are applied to the exchange rate when calculating the local currency equivalent of most export proceeds (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from practically all invisibles must be sur- rendered to the National Bank at the effective rate of exchange applicable to the particular transaction. Receipts from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions must be surrendered at the official rate but receive a premium of 33% per cent; receipts from emigrants' remittances, inheritances, maintenance, gifts, and other non- commercial items receive the official rate plus a 100 per cent premium. Proceeds from invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to proceeds from merchan- dise transactions. Economic organizations may use foreign exchange earned from the execution of development work abroad for their own payments abroad. The Committee for Foreign Trade, in agreement with the Federal Secretariat for Finance, determines the portion of 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA exchange proceeds earned by transport and other service enterprises that must be surrendered and the portion that may be retained for use by these organizations abroad; the portion that may be retained varies between 20 and 100 per cent. Not more than Din 3,000 in Yugoslav banknotes, in notes of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital All transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents are subject to individual license. Authorization is seldom granted for foreign participation in foreign enterprises in Yugoslavia. However, foreign loans to Yugoslav enterprises are admitted on a more liberal basis. Unless specifically permitted to retain foreign exchange, resi- dents are obliged to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange held abroad. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (dinars per UJS. dollar) YUGOSLAVIA Buying 300 (Official Rate) Receipts from invisibles not specified below. Incoming capital. 400 (Official Rate plus 83%% Premium) Receipts from tourism and diplomatic and other foreign missions. 600 (Official Rate plus 100% Premium) Receipts from emigrants' remittances, inheritances, maintenance, gifts, and other noncommercial items. 6325 (Settlement Rate) Exports and related invisibles.6 Selling 300 (Official Rate) Foreign debt service. Invisibles of gov- ernment organs and institutions. Out- going capital. Imports by government organs and institutions.3 Imports of wheat and fats.4 400 (Official Rate plus Retransfer of unspent dinar amounts representing exchange cashed for non- residents. 600 (Official Rate plus 100%) Exchange for travel and family main- tenance remittances. Other private non- commercial payments. 6325 (Settlement Rate) Imports for investment projects financed from Investment Funds.7 Imports of most raw materials and spare parts (and related invisibles) by economic organi- zations.3 5,0208 (Free Market Rate) Sales by National Bank for a few im- ports and invisibles.9 3 Actual effective rates for imports are created by the application of 19 import coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0, to specified categories of imports and other payments. 4 No coefficient is applied to imports of wheat and fats, but if the domestic price is higher than the foreign price, the importer is, in principle, supposed to pay an additional amount equivalent to the difference between the foreign and the domestic price. 5 This is the settlement rate for the U.S. dollar; settlement rates are also fixed for other currencies. 6 Actual effective rates are created by the application of 35 export coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0, to specified categories of export proceeds and other receipts. 7 Payments for these imports are subject to settlement rates multiplied by a revaluation factor of 1.00. 8 This rate is the average rate for the U.S. dollar during December 1956. 9 Imports effected with the foreign exchange obtained in the free market are subject to payment of an amount calculated on the relevant coefficient applied to the settlement rates. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Changes during 1956 January 1. Exporters were no longer permitted to retain from 1 to 20 per cent, depending on the commodity, of their export proceeds. The entire proceeds from exports and commercial services were to be surrendered to the National Bank at the settlement rates, with only the following exceptions: exporters could retain 1 per cent of their proceeds; economic organizations acting as commercial agencies in international trade could retain for their own use 50 per cent of their foreign exchange earnings; transport and other service enterprises could retain for their own use f rom 20 to 100 per cent of their exchange earnings; and economic organizations could retain for their own use foreign exchange earnings from the execution of development works abroad. Retained exchange could no longer be sold in the free market and if not used had to be surrendered to the National Bank at the settlement rates; consequently, the tax of 50 per cent on profits earned on the sale of exchange in the free market was abolished. Sales of exchange in the free market could be made only by the National Bank. A premium of 33% per cent of the official rate, yielding an effective rate of Din 400 per US$1, was introduced for receipts of exchange from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions. Exchange received by hotels and restaurants could no longer be retained in part but had to be surrendered in fu ll to the National Bank at the official rate plus a premium of 33% per cent. Provision was made for importers of goods under domestic price control, and for exporters of any commodity, to settle transactions at coefficients lower for exports and higher for imports than the ones prescribed, and to receive a premium of 10 per cent of the difference between the prescribed coeffi- cient and the coefficient at which settlement is actually made; this premium could be used for special internal purposes to create incentives for settlement at less favorable coefficients. February 16. A payments agreement with Mainland China came into effect. May 3. The revaluation factor applicable to imports for investment projects financed from the General Investment Fund was fixed at 1.00 and was given effect as from January 1, 1956. July 18. The Yugoslav Investment Bank was established. This bank administers allocations of foreign exchange for imports for investment projects financed from the Investment Funds. The bank also manages* the General Investment Fund. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA July 25. Imports for investment projects financed from Investment Funds of the Republics and Communes and from Investment Funds of enterprises were made subject to settlement rates multiplied by the revaluation factor of 1.00 (i.e., the system applied to imports financed from the General Investment Fund ). Previously, these imports could only be effected with foreign exchange obtained in the free market. September 30. The payments agreement with Indonesia was terminated. December 5. New foreign exchange regulations on travel were issued, effective December 13. The maximum amount of dinar notes that could be taken in or out of Yugoslavia was raised from Din 1,500 to Din 3,000. December 31. The system of predetermined export quotas was abol- ished and the number of prohibited export commodities was reduced. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution "ARTICLE VIII COUNTRIES" Canada Cuba Dominican Republic El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Mexico Panama United States Venezuela ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The exchange value of the Canadian Dollar is allowed to fluctuate. The noon market rate on December 31,1956 was Can$0.9597 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 26, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and ex- change receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, a few com- modities are under export control to all destinations. For security reasons, a list of restricted commodities is under export control to all destinations except the United States. All exports to the U.S.S.R. and some other destinations are subject to control, but certain nonstrategic goods may be exported to these destinations under general permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to exchange receipts from, or exchange payments for, invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control obligations attached to capital receipts or payments by either residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 March 21. The requirement of an export license for gold was lifted. July 16. The requirement of individual permits for 118 nonstrategic products of Canadian origin, when exported to the U.S.S.R. and certain other destinations, was lifted. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Exchange Rate System The par value is Cuban Peso 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are 1.00 peso buying (and selling for certain capital transfers), 1.02 pesos selling (including a 2 per cent tax on the export of funds, securi- ties, and merchandise), per US$1. There are no exchange restrictions on foreign payments except the 2 per cent tax. Special requirements, however, are attached to payments to Spain, Mainland China, and North Korea. On December 18, 1953, Cuba notified the Fund that it assumed fully the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Cuban Monetary Stabilization Fund, the administration of which is entrusted to a committee consisting of the Minister of Finance, the President of the National Bank of Cuba, and the Director of the Stabilization Fund, has power to operate exchange control directly or through the National Bank. Prescription of Currency The only requirements with respect to the method of payment are as follows: (1) Under the terms of a payments agreement with Spain, payments between Spanish and Cuban residents are effected through clearing accounts expressed in Cuban pesos. (2) Payments to resi- dents of Mainland China and North Korea must be made by bank transfer through a bank located in the United States. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions with respect to the accounts in local cur- rency of nonresidents. Such accounts may be opened and operated freely, with the exception of accounts of residents of Spain. With- drawals from nonresident accounts are subject to the 2 per cent ex- change tax if the funds are sent or used abroad. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are subject to licensing for registration and statistical purposes. Imports from Spain (with which Cuba has a payments agree- ment) can be cleared only upon the presentation of an authorization from the Stabilization Fund. Apart from special requirements attached 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA to payments to Mainland China and North Korea, all other payments may be made freely. There is an exchange tax of 2 per cent on exchange payments and transfers on account of imports. Payments for Invisibles The 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on all payments on account of invisibles. Otherwise, payments for invisibles are permitted freely, but obligations concerning the method of payment apply to certain payments (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). A limit of $50 is placed on foreign or domestic currency notes that travelers, other than tourists, may take out of the country without paying the 2 per cent tax. Tourists are exempt from the 2 per cent tax on personal funds they carry when leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports not credited to a bank account in Cuba are subject to the 2 per cent exchange tax on transfers abroad. Thirty per cent of the dollar ex- change proceeds of sugar and syrup exports must be surrendered at the official rate. There are no other exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange earnings from invisibles are freely disposable. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by either residents or nonresidents. The 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on the export of capital, on withdrawals of actual U.S. currency from banks in Cuba, even if made from U.S. dollar accounts, and on the export of securities. The tax is refunded when it is proved that the proceeds from the sale of the securi- ties have been returned to Cuba. When duly registered with the Stabilization Fund, capital imported for investment (1) in industrial, agricultural, or other enterprises or undertakings in Cuba, (2) in securities issued by such enterprises, or (3) in securities of the State of Cuba, the Cuban Bank for Agri- cultural and Industrial Development, or other similar institutions, is exempt from the 2 per cent tax in the event that such capital is re- exported. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Changes during 1956 October. Imports from the French Franc Area were no longer pay- able in French francs through a special account and could be paid freely in U.S. dollars. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1.00 = US$1. U.S. dollar trans- actions between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks are effected at parity. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to small banking commissions (except on the purchase of travelers checks). The Dominican Republic has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. All payments abroad must, however, be made through banks, and there is an exchange licensing system, but it is not exercised in a restric- tive manner. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange licenses are issued by the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Banking, and the commercial banks have the obligation to submit daily applications for exchange to the Ministry. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad, except that all payments abroad must be made through banks. Imports and Import Payments With a few exceptions, import licenses are not required; but all applications for exchange have to be submitted daily by the banks for approval by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Banking. This system of exchange licensing is maintained for statistical purposes and is not exercised restrictively. Licenses are issued within 24 hours after the filing of applications. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses, which are issued within 24 hours after the filing of applications. No restrictions are imposed on such payments. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for a few other special items. There are no exchange control requirements attached to export proceeds and these may be dis- posed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital by either resi- dents or nonresidents. Applications for exchange for capital remit- tances must be submitted daily by the banks for formal approval by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Banking. Changes during 1956 February 1. Commercial banks no longer applied commissions or discounts to their purchases of travelers checks. March 17. Import licenses were required for imports of barbed wire, staples, and air-conditioning units. March 19. Import licenses were required for imports of treated wood posts. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Salvadoran Colones 2.50 = US$1. The official rates are 0 2.49 buying, 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. El Salvador has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, except that payments to Spain must, and payments to Nicaragua may, be made through special accounts. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency Payments for merchandise transactions with Spain must be made through special accounts in accordance with the terms of a special payments agreement. El Salvador also has a payments agreement with Nicaragua, but payments for merchandise transactions with that country may be made either through special accounts or through other legal means. Otherwise, there are no obligations imposed on residents prescribing the method or currency for payments. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, but a few imports are subject to regulation. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, but payments for imports from Spain must be made through special accounts. Because of the payments agreement with Nicaragua, some imports from that country are paid for through special accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports, except that receipts from exports to Spain, with which El Salvador has a payments agreement, must be obtained through special accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are attached to proceeds from invisibles. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital transfers made by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is Guatemalan Quetzal 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.0000 buying, Q 1.0075 selling, per US$1. Guatemala has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Purchases and sales of exchange must, however, be made through banks. On January 27,1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely through banks. Import regulations cover a few specified items and a few imports are prohibited. A customs surcharge of 100 per cent is charged on non- essential imports from countries with which Guatemala has an un- favorable trade balance of more than 75 per cent. As at December 31, 1956, this surcharge applied to imports, with certain exceptions, from Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Poland, and Uruguay. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the pro- ceeds of exports, but the sale of foreign exchange must take place through a bank. Export licenses are required for a few items. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles are not restricted, except that sales and purchases of foreign exchange must be made through banks. Minor exchange transactions by tourists and travelers are exempt from this requirement. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Changes during 1956 May 22. Imports from the Federal Republic of Germany were banned. August 7. Import licensing was applied to special wheat flour used in the manufacture of biscuits and food pastes. October 13. A Ministerial Decree imposed a 100 per cent customs surcharge (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above) on merchandise originating in Ecuador, England, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Mexico, Scotland, Trinidad, and Venezuela. October 17. The Ministerial Decree of October 13 was canceled. An agreement of May 5, 1955 returned to force, as a result of which the countries to which the 100 per cent surcharge on imports (with certain exceptions) applied were Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Poland, and Uruguay. December 7. The ban on trade with the Federal Republic of Ger- many was lifted. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is Haitian Gourdes 5.00 = US$1. This is a uniform rate, applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commis- sions. Under a law of February 22, 1948, there is a tax of 3 per cent on the remittance abroad of amounts derived from insurance premiums. Otherwise, Haiti has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, but a few imports are controlled. Payments abroad may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not-restricted, except for a 3 per cent tax on the remittance abroad of amounts derived from premiums col- lected by insurance companies. Under a law of September 12, 1951, 20 per cent of the net profits realized each year by insurance com- panies operating in Haiti has to be invested in nonnegotiable obliga- tions of the Institut Haitien de Credit Agricole et Industriel, reimbur- sable in two years. There exists a regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibiting the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. The export of gold coins, bullion, etc., may be effected only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. A few exports are subject to license. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is Honduran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Cen- tral Bank of Honduras or with the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restriction, but for statistical purposes buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency, for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, but for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Earners of foreign exchange may retain their export pro- ceeds or use them for international transactions. Those wishing to nego- tiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or with the banking system for account of the Central Bank. There is a prohibition on all exports, re-exports, and transshipments to countries of the Soviet bloc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System MEXICO The par value is Mexican Pesos 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buying, Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rate on Decem- ber 31, 1956 was Mex$12.49125 per US$1. Mexico has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, except that payments to certain coun- tries with which Mexico has payments agreements may be made through special accounts. The granting of some import licenses is sub- ject to quantitative restriction. On November 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Payments for transactions with Spain and Czecho- slovakia, as well as for imports and exports of books and periodicals from or to Argentina, may be recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts. (Mexico has payments agreements with Argentina and Czechoslovakia; the agreement with Spain is between the Bank of Mexico and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute.) Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad are made freely. Payments for im- ports from Argentina, Czechoslovakia, and Spain may be recorded through special accounts. For a considerable number of items, a prior import license must be obtained from the Ministry of Economy; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. Imports of certain goods (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, fire arms, watches, synthetic fibers, radios and tele- vision sets, whisky, wines, and liquors, equipment and machinery) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of an equivalent amount of certain listed commodities, mainly cotton. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Such transactions with certain countries may be recorded through special accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The contracting of insurance 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO with foreign companies for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with branches established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Certain exports require export licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no exchange control requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 On various dates during the year, additions to and removals from the list of items subject to restrictive import licensing were made. July. The payments agreement between Mexico and Indonesia was terminated. July 17. Various iron and steel products were added to the list of items requiring a prior export permit. September 1. The system that has been in operation in Mexico for some years, under which the granting of import licenses for certain goods depends on the importer's guaranteeing the export of an equiva- lent amount of certain commodities, was extended to imports of auto- mobiles and automobile parts to be assembled in Mexico, with cotton as a new compensatory export commodity. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Panamanian Balboa 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by the silver balboa and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments abroad may be made freely. Import licensing is in effect for a few items and a few imports are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Export permits are required for a few items and a few exports are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%i grains of gold i^o fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (with allowance for handling charges and expenses) the Treasury buys and sells gold from and to governments, central banks, and other official institutions of other countries. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China and North Korea or in- volving certain assets of the Government of Egypt or the Suez Canal Company. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applications for trans- actions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China and North Korea or involving certain assets of the Government of Egypt or the Suez Canal Company. Licenses required for agricultural and dairy products placed under import quota are issued by the Depart- ment of Agriculture. For items subject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), the Department of Com- merce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with the excep- tion of payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Mainland China and North Korea, and payments from certain assets of the Government of Egypt or the Suez Canal Company, which are prohibited except under license. Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Chinese Communist or North Korean origin are sub- ject to license. There are import quotas established for certain dairy and agricultural products. Special import quotas apply to cordage and sugar from the Philippine Republic under the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 as revised. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Exports to the European Soviet bloc, with the exception of a limited list of nonstrategic exports, and all exports to Mainland 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES China and North Korea are subject to license. In general, exports to other countries of strategic materials and of materials in short supply also require licenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except where they involve Mainland China or North Korea, or payments from certain assets of the Government of Egypt or the Suez Canal Company. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents, except to the extent that the provisions referred to above regarding Mainland China and North Korea, and the Government of Egypt and the Suez Canal Company, are involved. Changes during 1956 April 26. A general license was issued which listed about 700 items that may be shipped without a special export license to Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, East Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer Mongolia, Poland and Danzig, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. July 31. Transactions involving the Government of Egypt or the Suez Canal Company were prohibited except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury. However, on August 3, 1956, a gen- eral license was issued authorizing all such transactions except those involving assets held in the United States on July 31, 1956. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Venezuelan Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. There is an official selling rate of Bs 3.35 per US$1, which applies to all sales of exchange except for government imports. The corresponding buying rate fluctuates around Bs 3.33 per US$1 and applies to all purchases of exchange except those from the petroleum companies and, under cer- tain conditions, from exporters of cacao and coffee. There is a multiple exchange rate system comprising preferential rates for both govern- ment imports and the proceeds of coffee and cacao exports, and special buying rates applied to purchases of exchange from the petroleum companies. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) There is no system of payment licenses, and only a few import restrictions are maintained, principally for protective purposes. Administration of Control Most of the few required import and export licenses are issued by the Office of Foreign Commerce of the Ministry of Development; the Ministry of Agriculture licenses some imports. Under the terms of a contract with the Goverment, the Central Bank of Venezuela has the responsibility for ensuring that the special exchange rates are applied to the appropriate transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements in force. Imports and Import Payments Some items are subject to import licensing and import quotas are applied to a few commodities for protective purposes. Licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has pur- chased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. 1 Venezuela has not notified the Fund that it is prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. This survey is included in this group since the Fund does not consider that Venezuela applies exchange measures under Article XIV. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no limitations on exports, but the export of strategic mate- rials to certain countries is prohibited and export licenses for a few products essential to the domestic economy must be obtained from the Ministry of Development. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum companies must surrender export proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements at a rate of Bs 3.09 per US$1; a rate of Bs 3.046259 per US$1 is applied to exchange surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers during any one year. The proceeds of exports other than petroleum are sold at the Bs 3.33 rate, but if the world prices for cacao and coffee are below cer- tain levels, a proportion of the proceeds of exports of cacao and un- washed coffee may be sold at a rate of Bs 4.25, and of exports of washed coffee at a rate of Bs 4.80, per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable or may be sold at the Bs 3.33 rate. Capital Payments for transfers of capital may be made freely at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable or may be sold at the Bs 3.33 rate. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1956) (bolivares per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling 3.046259 Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies in excess of the Cen- tral Bank's foreign exchange sales dur- ing the given year. 3.09 Local currency requirements, of petro- leum companies up to the limits of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales during the given year. 3.33 Exports of coffee and cacao in a pro- portion depending on world prices. All other exports except petroleum. Invis- ibles. Capital. 4.25 Exports of cacao and unwashed coffee in a proportion depending on world prices. 4.80 Exports of washed coffee in a propor- tion depending on world prices. 3.09 Government payments. 3.35 All other payments. Note: The rates shown above for exports of coffee and cacao need not be effec- tive rates, since the exchange rates at which the proceeds of these exports are purchased are varied in accordance with the world prices for these commodities. The special rates for coffee have not been applied in recent years, as international prices have been higher than the maximum level below which the special rates would apply. Taxes of Bs 2 and Bs 1% per 46 kilograms are levied on exports of washed and unwashed coffee, respectively, when the foreign exchange proceeds are converted at premium rates. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NONMEMBER COUNTRIES Cambodia Irish Republic Laos Liberia Libya New Zealand Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Sudan Switzerland Tunisia ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Exchange Rate System The official rate is Cambodian Riels 35 — US$1. Exchange rates are orderly, based on the exchange rates in the official exchange market in Paris, to which the authorized banks have access for transactions in local currency and in forward exchange for periods not exceeding three months and based on commercial transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in conjunction with the National Bank of Cambodia. Details of the application of the exchange control are carried out by authorized banks. Import and export control is the responsibility of the Minister of National Economy, who delegates this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. The granting of import licenses is in the hands of the National Import Committee. Prescription of Currency The method of payment or receipt for settlements with other coun- tries is laid down in each individual license. There are, however, pay- ments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Mainland China, Laos, and Viet-Nam that provide for settlement with those countries through special accounts. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require import licenses. Only imports of listed commodities are authorized, including imports paid for with freely available EFAC funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Licenses for imports of certain goods that are also produced locally are granted only for goods of Viet-Namese origin. Applications to import are considered only from licensed importers. Imports must be recorded with an authorized bank. Various commodities may be imported with balances on EFAC accounts, with the exception of prohibited goods and goods that might compete with local production. Certain listed goods may be imported from Bangkok, Hong Kong, or Singapore under private compensation arrangements without pay- ment, provided that double the amount of goods has been exported and the difference is repatriated. In such cases, an import license is not required, but the necessary exchange control documents must be pro- vided and the transaction recorded with an authorized bank. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Resident travelers may buy freely single or return tickets for foreign travel starting from Cambodia; tickets for other journeys require licenses. Travelers may take out no more than 400 riels per person in domestic banknotes. The export of foreign bank- notes is subject to license but nonresident travelers may take out the amount they imported less any exchange sold. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports require export licenses, but certain listed items may be exported against an export certificate showing how the ex- change proceeds will be settled and repatriated and supported by a banker's guarantee. Exports must be recorded with an authorized bank and the exchange proceeds surrendered. Certain percentages of export proceeds may, however, be retained in special EFAC (Exporta- tions-Frais Accessoires) accounts and used by the exporter or sup- plier of the goods either to pay certain commercial expenses or to pay for imports of certain commodities, such as products for mass consump- tion, raw materials, or equipment goods. The percentages that may be retained in EFAC accounts are 13 per cent for exports payable in U.S. dollars or another currency of the dollar area, and 10 per cent for exports payable in other currencies. Of the 13 per cent, 3 per cent may be used for payments abroad, including payments for imports of unlisted goods. U.S. dollars and other currencies of the dollar area in EFAC accounts may be exchanged for any other EFAC currency; the currencies of the EPU area may be exchanged for one another. Certain listed goods may be exported to Bangkok, Hong Kong, or Singapore under private compensation arrangements, provided that half the value of the goods is imported and that the other half is repatriated in foreign exchange. In such cases, exchange control docu- ments must be provided and the transaction recorded with an author- ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All residents of Cambodia, other than foreigners, must surrender foreign exchange received to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in not more than 400 riels per person in domestic banknotes. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely, subject to declaration, but resi- dents have an obligation to surrender such notes within seven days. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Capital All foreign investments in Cambodia require prior authorization. Authorization depends, among other things, on a minimum participa- tion of domestic capital. Foreign capital invested in Cambodia must be in foreign exchange. Profits may be transferred and capital repatri- ated in the currency of the original investment up to certain limits: for profits regularly justified, 8 per cent per year, plus, as capital amorti- zation, 6 per cent per year beginning with the fourth year; for capital withdrawn following liquidation or transfer of the enterprise, 20 per cent per year. The import or export of securities requires a license. Changes during 1956 March 26. A decree (No. 84-NS) was issued, defining the riel (the monetary unit of Cambodia) as 25.3905 milligrams of fine gold. May 31. A decree (No. 102-NS) established the conditions attached to the investment of foreign capital. June 16. A payments agreement of April 24, 1956 with Mainland China came into effect. It provided for the settlement of commercial and financial transactions through special accounts maintained in ster- ling at the National Bank of Cambodia and the People's Bank of China. June 20. Authorized banks were permitted to conclude with their clients, for settlements of imports and exports, forward exchange trans- actions for periods not exceeding three months in currencies quoted on the Paris foreign exchange market. July 10. A notice (No. 25) modified the regulations governing im- ports from, and exports to, Laos and Viet-Nam: Certain exports could be made under a simplified export certificate procedure. All imports from Laos and Viet-Nam required an import license. August 2. A payments agreement was concluded with Laos. It pro- vided for the settlement of current payments between the two countries through special accounts established at the National Bank of Cam- bodia in riels and at the National Bank of Laos in kips. October 6. A payments agreement was concluded with Czechoslo- vakia which provided for the settlement of commercial and financial transactions through special accounts in sterling at the National Bank of Cambodia and at the State Bank of Czechoslovakia. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The Irish Pound is officially at par with the U.K. pound. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the comparable London quo- tations. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Department of Finance, whose permission is required before orders may be placed for goods origi- nating outside the Sterling Area, unless the goods are covered by gen- eral exemptions. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, normally are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in char- acter. Import and export restrictions are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The Irish Republic is one of the territories of the Sterling Area and payments to other parts of the Sterling Area may be made without formality. Payments for goods or services originating outside the Ster- ling Area may be made by paying (1) Irish pounds or sterling to a resident of the United Kingdom; (2) dollars, Irish pounds, or sterling through a bank to the account of a resident of the American Account Area or Canada, for goods or service originating in those countries; or (3) non-dollar specified currencies,1 Irish pounds, or sterling through a bank to the account of a person resident outside the American Account Area or Canada, for goods or services originating outside those coun- tries. The proceeds of exports to the American Account Area or Canada must be received in Irish pounds or sterling from the account of a resi- dent of those countries, or in Canadian or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received 1 Non-dollar specified currencies are listed in the Irish regulations as Belgian francs, Congolese francs, kroner of Denmark and the Faroe Islands, deutsche mark, francs of the French Monetary Area, French Somali Coast (Djibouti) francs, Indo-Chinese piastres, Italian lire, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC in Irish pounds or sterling from the account of a resident outside the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency.2 Imports and Import Payments Certain goods are subject to import prohibitions and others, regard- less of the country of origin, are subject to quota restrictions on a global basis. Most goods, however, do not require individual import licenses. Whether or not an individual import license is required, per- mission must be obtained from the Department of Finance before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, unless the goods are covered by general exemptions. Under these ex- emptions, residents may purchase freely certain items from the dollar area and almost all goods from outside the dollar area, provided that the goods are to be delivered within nine months of the order and that payment will be made in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). For imports from the dollar area not subject to global restrictions, individual permission is at present granted automatically. Where exchange control authority, either general or individual, is held, the appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit a nonresident account is granted automatically. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to persons resident outside the Sterling Area require approval, but there is a general authority covering the costs of trans- port, handling, and insurance of Irish imports and exports. Other pay- ments for invisibles are authorized freely, except that there are limita- tions on payments for tourism and for film rentals. There is a basic allowance of exchange for tourist travel in non-dollar countries of £75 per adult for 12 months. Not more than £10 in Sterling Area notes or £25 in other currency notes may be taken out of the country to a destination outside the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to outside the Sterling Area are required to obtain payment of the value of the goods in the manner prescribed in the 2 Specified currencies are those listed in footnote 1, together with Canadian dollars, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, and U.S. dollars. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC regulations within six months of shipment. When payment is received in a specified currency (see footnote 2 ), the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if specified currencies (see footnote 2) are received they must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of U.K. banknotes through the post from outside the United Kingdom is prohibited. Travelers from the United Kingdom may bring in any amount of U.K. banknotes, but travelers from other countries may not bring in more than £10 in such notes. There are no limitations on the import of Irish banknotes, but if a large amount of such notes is carried, the traveler is liable to questioning by the customs, in view of the ban on the export of more than £10 in Sterling Area notes. Capital All transfers of capital to territories outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval. Applications by emigrants are approved within certain fixed allowances; those from other persons are considered on their merits. Incoming capital received in a specified currency (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank, except that in certain classes of transactions the recipient may reinvest the foreign currency in securities payable in that currency, provided the reinvestment is carried out through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area in this way. Changes during 1956 March 13. The Government of the Irish Republic announced the imposition of a special levy on an extensive range of goods imported on or after March 14, in order to correct the serious deficit in the balance of payments. July 26. The basic allowance of exchange for tourist travel in non- dollar countries was reduced from £100 to £75 per adult for 12 months. Most of the special import levies (see March 13, abov6) were in- creased and additional goods were made subject to special levies. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System The official rate is Laotian Kips 35 = US$1. Exchange rates are orderly. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in conjunction with the National Bank of Laos, and details of the ex- change control are carried out by authorized banks. Import and export control is the responsibility of the Minister of National Economy, who delegates this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. The granting of import licenses is in the hands of the National Import Committee. Policy on foreign investment in Laos is determined by the Directorate of External Finance. Prescription of Currency The method of payment or receipt for settlements with other coun- tries is specified in each license. There are, however, payments agree- ments with Cambodia, Mainland China, and Viet-Nam that provide for settlements with those countries through special accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports require import licenses, and all imports must be re- corded with an authorized bank. Applications to import are considered only from licensed importers. Imports paid for with foreign exchange are authorized only for listed commodities, and some goods may be imported only if no foreign exchange is used. Certain listed goods may be imported under private compensation arrangements, provided goods of an equivalent value have been exported. For goods imported without exchange payment, an import license is not required but the necessary exchange control documents must be provided and the transaction recorded with an authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments require the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Resident travelers may buy freely single or return tickets for foreign travel starting f rom Laos; tickets for other journeys require licenses. Travelers may take out no more than K 400 per person in domestic banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS license, but nonresident travelers may take out the amount they imported less any exchange sold. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports require export licenses, but certain listed items may be exported on the completion of an export certificate, supported by a banker's guarantee, showing how the exchange proceeds will be ob- tained. Exports must be recorded with an authorized bank and the exchange proceeds surrendered. Certain listed goods may be exported under private compensation arrangements, provided goods of an equivalent value are imported; in such cases, exchange control docu- ments must be provided and the transaction recorded with an author- ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All residents of Laos, other than foreigners, must surrender foreign exchange received by them to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in no more than K 400 per person in domestic banknotes. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely, subject to declaration, but resi- dents have an obligation to surrender such notes within seven days. Capital All foreign investments in Laos require prior authorization. Foreign capital invested in Laos after September 30, 1956 may be in foreign exchange or in the form of capital goods imported without allocation of exchange. For the purpose of remitting profits, new foreign investments in Laos are divided in three categories: in the first category (industrial de- velopment, mining, electrical, agricultural, constructional, and pro- fessional undertakings, etc.), 70 per cent of net profits may be remitted; in the second category (transport and mechanical repair, etc.), 60 per cent of net profits may be remitted; in the third category (hotels, banks, general trading companies, etc.), 50 per cent of net profits may be remitted. The amount of profits that may be remitted may not exceed 10 per cent annually of the foreign investment during the first five years or 8 per cent annually in subsequent years. The capital may be repatriated in annual payments —in the original currency or in kind—of up to 10 per cent of the initial investment, but the total amount remitted annually may not exceed K 5 million. On old foreign investments, 40 per cent of net profits may be remitted. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Changes during 1956 January 21. A payments agreement was concluded with Viet-Nam. It provided for the settlement of current payments between the two countries through centralized accounts established at the National Bank of Viet-Nam in piastres and at the National Bank of Laos in kips. August 2. A payments agreement was concluded with Cambodia. It provided for the settlement of current payments between the two coun- tries through centralized accounts established at the National Bank of Cambodia in riels and at the National Bank of Laos in kips. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The Liberian Dollar is at parity with the U.S. dollar. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage in silver and copper. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restric- tions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items require prior licenses. A permit is required f rom the Secretary of the Treasury for the import of currency into Liberia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, except for precious metals and precious stones. The surrender of the proceeds f rom exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts or payments. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The Libyan Pound is officially at par with the pound sterling. Ex- change rates for other currencies are based on the London quotations. Administration of Control Licenses for payments abroad and import licenses are issued by the Administrations of the three provinces of the United Kingdom of Libya, namely, Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, and the Fezzan. (The National Bank of Libya is expected to take over the administration of exchange con- trol during 1957.) A Federal Dollar Committee fixes half-yearly quotas for imports from dollar countries. Prescription of Currency The United Kingdom of Libya, as one of the territories of the Ster- ling Area, conforms to the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom (see section on Prescription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). Imports and Import Payments Imports from all countries require individual licenses. Imports from dollar countries are authorized on the basis of quotas fixed twice a year by a Federal Dollar Committee. Exchange permits are required for all remittances abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses. These are granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Remittances in respect of other invisibles are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, to ensure that the proceeds will be re- ceived in conformity with the prescription of currency requirements. Goods imported against payment in dollars may not be re-exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Capital Transfers of capital abroad require licenses. The repatriation of capital and the remittance of profits from Libya normally are allowed. Changes during 1956 November. The general permission to import goods from the Sterling Area and from OEEC countries under open general license was tempo- rarily suspended. All imports were made subject to individual license and exchange permits were required for all remittances abroad. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The official rates for the New Zealand Pound in terms of non- sterling currencies are based on the fixed rate for sterling-N.Z. pounds and the rate for the currency concerned in the London market, main- tained between the official limits. As at December 31, 1956, the trading banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London were £NZ 100/7/6 buying, £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £100, and for U.S. dollars they were $2.7820 buying, $2.7641 selling, per £NZ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is given to the Minister of Finance, who, in accordance with the terms of the regulations, has delegated it to the Reserve Bank of New Zealand; however, much of the routine super- vision is done by the trading (commercial) banks. Prescription of Currency New Zealand, as one of the territories of the Sterling Area, conforms to the prescription of currency arrangements and the payments system of the United Kingdom (see section on Prescription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). Imports and Import Payments About August of each year, the import licensing program for the next calendar year is published. The import program for motor vehicles is announced separately. Import licensing policy distinguishes between imports from "scheduled" countries * and imports from non- scheduled countries. Most imports from "scheduled" countries, some imports from nonscheduled countries, and most imports of motor vehicles require import licenses. For permitted imports, exchange is made available in fu l l. Payments for imports must be made in the manner prescribed in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). 1 These countries are listed in the New Zealand regulations as follows: Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haitij Honduras, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States, and Venezuela. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Payments to the Sterling Area are not restricted, except for travel allowances and a few minor items. An exchange allowance of £NZ 200 per adult per 12 months is granted for nonbusiness travel in non- sterling, non-dollar countries, and of £NZ 5 per day, with a maximum of £NZ 100, for nonbusiness travel in dollar countries. The remittance of profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents is permitted freely, subject to formal approval by the Reserve Bank. Other remit- tances to countries outside the Sterling Area are treated on their merits, strict scrutiny being given to remittances to hard currency areas. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department, provided that the transaction is being cleared through a trading bank through which the net export proceeds will be received in a manner conforming to the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that the foreign exchange will be surrendered to the banking system. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts of non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered to the Reserve Bank; they may be sold to a trading bank in New Zealand, but they may not otherwise be sold or dealt in without permission. No con- trol is exercised over the disposal of receipts of Sterling Area currencies other than from exports. Capital Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand resi- dents require the prior permission of the Reserve Bank. All outward capital remittances require prior approval. Capital receipts in non- Sterling Area currencies must be offered to or declared to the Reserve Bank. No control is exercised over the disposal by New Zealand resi- dents of capital receipts in Sterling Area currencies. Changes during 1956 At various times in 1956 items were added to the list of goods exempt from import licensing if imported from nonscheduled countries. August 1. The Import Licensing Schedule for 1957 was announced. There were no major changes from the Schedule for 1956. A few items 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND were added to the list of goods exempt from import licensing if imported from nonscheduled countries; about 80 per cent of imports from nonscheduled countries were now free of license. Licensing was reimposed, effective immediately, on two items (men's nylon socks and girls' ankle socks), because of local production. September 3. It was announced that licenses for imports of cars and commercial vehicles in 1957 would be issued on approximately the same scale as in 1956. About 75 per cent of the total allocation would be for "completely knocked down" vehicles for assembly in New Zealand. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The parity of the Portuguese Escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar is Esc 28.75215 — US$1. The official rates are Esc 28.60 buying, Esc 28.95 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates are uniform. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and Portuguese overseas territories1 constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The ex- change control regulations of Portugal are applied almost uniformly throughout the Portuguese Monetary Area, and current payments be- tween its various territories are effected freely through controlled accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is the responsibility of the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Econ- omy and of the Council of Ministers; a Directorate-General of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economy administers trade controls. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the Directorate-GeneraPs office. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and manner prescribed in the regulations, largely on the basis of the provisions of Portugal's bilateral trade and payments agreements. For imports from Belgium-Luxembourg, Den- mark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Nether- lands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and their monetary areas, payment may be made in the currency of the selling area; from Austria, Brazil, Greece, Italy, and Turkey, in "agreement" dollars; from Chile, Egypt, and Spain, in escudos; from Czechoslo- vakia, East Germany, Hungary, and Poland, in the related clearing account currency; and for all other imports, in U.S. dollars. The regu- lations governing the method of payment for exports are similar, except 1 The Azores, Madeira, the Cape Verde Islands, Portuguese Guinea, Sao Joao Baptista de Adjuda, the Islands of Sao Tome and Principe, Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese Indies (Goa, Damao, Diu), Macao, and Portuguese Timor. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL that for exports to most Western European countries the proceeds may, alternatively, be received in escudos. Any deviation from the gen- eral regulations in this matter requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration, mainly in order to enforce the prescription of currency regulations. The presentation of the registra- tion form to the customs enables the import to be cleared. Some imports from EPU countries and their overseas territories, imports from other than EPU countries payable in a currency of any EPU country, and most imports from other countries require individual licenses, which are issued with the registration forms. For certain listed goods from the dollar area, import licenses are issued automatically. Most goods valued at less than Esc 2,500 may be imported freely from EPU coun- tries, their associated territories, and Spain. Appropriate exchange is granted automatically for authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments on account of invisibles that are made in foreign cur- rency or by crediting a nonresident account, and that exceed Esc 2,500, require individual licenses. For lesser amounts, such payments are made if the applicant undertakes to supply documentary evidence of the obligation, should proof be required later. Payments to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are permitted freely within the terms of the related agreements. Payments in favor of resi- dents of any EPU country are permitted freely, without any limitation on the amount, on account of costs incidental to exports and imports, and up to Esc 100,000 on account of various other categories of current payments. Travelers may take out any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to registration, mainly in order to secure the enforcement of the prescription of currency and surrender regu- lations. Certain exports to any country and all exports to other than EPU countries payable in an EPU currency are subject to individual license. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Payments from residents of EPU countries may be received freely by Portuguese residents on account of costs incidental to exports and 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL imports, without any limitation on the amount, and on account of a variety of other categories of invisibles, up to Esc 100,000. The indi- vidual permit of the Bank of Portugal is required in all other cases. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Capital Transfers of capital to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are permitted freely within the terms of the related agree- ments. Other capital transfers require specific approval. Exchange receipts from capital transactions must be surrendered. Changes during 1956 No significant changes took place during 1956. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The official government selling rate through the Saudi Arabian Mone- tary Agency is Saudi Riyals 3, qurush 16^, per US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency fixes the value of the riyal in relation to foreign currencies and aids the Ministry of Finance in centralizing the receipts and expenditures of the Government. The commercial banks' selling rate ranges from SR 3/16% to SR 3/17 per US$1. Open market buying is small and occasional; the quotation at the end of 1956 was around SR 4/9 per US$1. Licenses are required for most imports and for all exchange payments. The granting of exchange at the official rate depends on its availability. Administration of Control Import licenses for most goods, and exchange licenses for all pay- ments made at the official rate, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Some imports require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange at the official rate is provided by the Saudi Arabian Mone- tary Agency in accordance with availabilities. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad, except that imports from Lebanon must be settled in Lebanese pounds. Imports and Import Payments All imports, except certain essential foodstuffs, sheep, and medicine, require import licenses from the Ministry of Finance. A few products require prior licenses from the Ministry of Commerce. The remittance of exchange to pay for imports or the opening of import letters of credit is permitted only after an import license has been obtained. Imports of gold or of foreign notes and coins are subject to prior license by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Imports of Saudi Arabian currency are prohibited, except for small amounts of silver coins in border traffic. Imports of Egyptian pounds are also pro- hibited, except that travelers may bring in up to LE 20 in LE 1 notes. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required and ex- change receipts are freely disposable. Exports are generally free of restriction, but the re-export of imported goods is prohibited. Exports of gold or of foreign notes and coins are subject to prior license by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Exports of Saudi Arabian silver or gold coins are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. On the other hand, the transfer of foreign exchange abroad at the official rate for any purpose requires a license. For conditions governing the export or import of currencies, gold, and silver, see the sections on Imports and Import Payments, and Exports and Export Proceeds, above. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts, but outgoing payments require licenses. A Royal Decree prohibits the export of capital and requires the repatriation of capital already abroad. Changes during 1956 June 27. The import of Saudi Arabian currency, whether in gold sovereigns, silver riyals, or pilgrims' receipts, and of Egyptian pounds, except LE 20 in LE 1 notes, was prohibited. August. The export of riyals was prohibited, and the transfer of more than SR 5,000 within Saudi Arabia was made subject to license from the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. November. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency ruled that all collections from Lebanon must be settled in Lebanese pounds instead of in U.S. dollars or sterling. November 3. Imports, with few exceptions, were made subject to license by the Ministry of Finance. November 13. Imports could be made only on a letter of credit basis. December. Imports were again permitted on a collection basis, but importers of most goods had to obtain an import permit before they could receive a license to remit exchange. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The official basic rates for the Spanish Peseta are Pts 10.95 buying, Pts 11.22 selling, * per US$1. The use of these rates is limited to govern- ment transactions; a system of multiple exchange rates applies to com- mercial and private transactions. There is an official buying rate of Pts 21.90 per US$1 and three official selling rates, Pts 16.425, Pts 21.90, and Pts 25.00, per US$1. Other effective rates arise from combining a percentage at one of these rates with the balance at a "free" official market rate, currently Pts 38.95 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low); this rate has remained stable since September 1953.2 Only authorized banks are permitted to operate in the "free" market, acting as intermediaries between buyers (who must have permits from the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute) and sellers of specified cur- rencies.3 As the demand for and the supply of "free" currencies are subject to the control exercised by the authorities over exchange trans- actions, the formation of "free" market rates is affected by the decisions of the Spanish trade and exchange control authorities and the inter- vention of the latter in the exchange market. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, Morocco (North Zone), and the Spanish colonies constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Fi- nance, the Ministry of Commerce, and the Spanish Foreign Exchange 1 Pts 10.95 plus Pts 0.27 (banking commission of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute). 2 Effective April 12, 1957, the "free" official market rate was changed to Pts 42.00 per US$1, as part of a program that would seek to unify the multiple exchange rate system. At the time this Report was prepared, however, details of the changes were not available. 3 The currencies dealt in on the "free" market are as follows: Algerian francs, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Moroccan francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, sterling, and U.S. dollars; Egyptian pounds, Portuguese escudos, and Swiss francs in agreement accounts; sterling in the "Iceland" account; U.S. dollars of account with Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, Greece, Italy, Mexico, Paraguay, and Turkey; and banknotes in Austrian schillings/ Belgian Congo francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Colombian pesos, Peruvian soles, Uruguayan pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Institute, and on a technical administrative level, by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy in the Ministry of Commerce, and authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and in the manner prescribed in the pro- visions of bilateral trade and payments agreements,4 or determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination of the goods and serv- ices involved. The prescription of currency requirements are applied through a system of individual licensing, to which all categories of exchange payments are subject. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined form by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute after consultation with the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. Foreign exchange is made available for authorized imports through official allocations or the "free" market mechanism. Subject to the approval of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, nonresidents may import essential materials and use the proceeds accruing from their sale for specifically determined expenses and investments in Spain. Specific industries grouped on a national or regional basis are permitted to make imports needed for production of their export goods out of their own retained exchange (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresi- dents on account of invisibles are subject to individual license. Prac- tically all of them are effected at the "free" market rate. Persons travel- ing abroad may take with them a maximum of Pts 2,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to individual licenses issued by the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. This requirement is estab- 4 Spain has bilateral payments arrangements with Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and Uruguay. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN lished mainly in order to determine the exchange rate applicable to the proceeds and to enforce currency prescription and surrender regula- tions. Proceeds accruing from exports must be surrendered to author- ized banks or sold through them in the "free" exchange market. How- ever, in accordance with the arrangements called "Special Operations," specific industries grouped on a national or regional basis are permitted to retain a percentage of their export proceeds to pay for imported raw materials or other goods needed by them for their own production; in certain cases, special rates for specified exports are determined. There are altogether 12 "Special Operations" arrangements in existence, 7 of which have a regional applicability. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold on the "free" market if received in currencies dealt in on that market, or surrendered to authorized banks if received in other currencies. The "free" market rates are applicable to proceeds accruing from practically all categories of invisibles. Persons may bring in a maximum of Pts 10,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital All outward capital transfers are subject to individual approval. All inward and outward private capital transfers must be effected at the "free" market rate. Special facilities are accorded to investments effected in Spain by nonresidents through the importation of essential goods (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1956) (pesetas per U.S. dollar) Buying (Official Basic Rate) 10.95 21.90 (Special Export Rate) Exports not listed in Groups 1-5. 23.605 (90% at Pts 21JM and 10% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 1: fresh fish, fruit •trees, livestock, etc. 11.22 Selling (Official Basic Rate plus Com- mission) Government payments. 16.425 Imports in Group A: coal and coke. 21.90 Imports in Group F: government- imPorted foodstuffs. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesetas per U.S. dollar) Buying 27.015 (70% at Pis 21.90 and 80% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 2: almond oil, ancho- vies in brine, olives, apricots, etc. 30.425 (60% at Pts 21.90 and 50% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 3: aniseed, capers, clays and silicates, cocoa, cork manu- factures, fresh and dried fruits, marble, canned meat, raw skins, tobacco prod- ucts, fresh vegetables, frozen fish, etc. 33.835 (30% at Pts 21.90 and 70% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 4: anchovies in oil, cocoa butter, fruit juices, liqueurs and brandies, essential oils, vinegar, wine, etc. 37.245 (10% at Pts 2130 and 90% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 5: books, ceramics, chemicals, fresh flowers, paints, var- nishes, perfumes, textiles, wolfram, etc. 38.95 ("Free" Official Market Rate) Invisibles. Capital. Note: The above rates apply to ex- change receipts in the specified cur- rencies. Changes during 1956 25.00 Selling Imports in Group E: liquid fuels. 25.217 Imports of mechanic paste and news- papers. 25.435 (60% at Pts 16J&5 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group B: phosphates. 28.72 (60% at Pts 21.90 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group C: seed potatoes. 32.13 (40% at Pts 21.90 and 60% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group D: aluminum, baux- ite, fertilizers, fibers, iron scrap. 35.00 Imports of aluminum oxide. 38.95 ("Free" Official Market Rate) All other imports. Authorized invisibles and capital. January 1. Exports of cocoa beans were moved f rom Group 1 to Group 3. February 24. Wool was moved from Group D, so that imports be- came payable at the "free" official market rate. Exports of teasel brushes were moved from Group 1 to Group 3. April 4. Exports of salt were moved from Group 4 to Group 5. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The Sudanese pound is officially at par with the Egyptian pound, giving a parity of Sudanese Pound 1 — US$2.87156. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, much of the detail being carried out by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements for imports and exports are required to be made as fol- lows : with countries in the Sterling Area, in sterling or Egyptian pounds through an account of a resident of the Sterling Area; with countries in the American Account Area, in U.S. dollars or in sterling through an American Account in the United Kingdom; and with other countries, in sterling through a Transferable Account in the United Kingdom or in Egyptian pounds through a nonresident account in the Sudan, subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. The Sudan has payments agreements with several Eastern European countries. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities imported f rom non-dollar countries are on open general license and do not require individual import licenses. Other imports, including all imports from Canada and American Account countries, require import licenses. Exchange appropriate to the export- ing country is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments abroad require licenses. Travelers leaving the Sudan may take out LE 20 in National Bank of Egypt notes and coins current in the Sudan and £10 in Bank of .England notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from transactions in invisibles have to be surrendered. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LE 20 in 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN National Bank of Egypt notes and coins current in the Sudan and £10 in Bank of England notes. Capital Under a law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital may be registered and thus may acquire, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Changes during 1956 January 31. A law for the encouragement of foreign investment became effective. September 20. With few exceptions, all imports from the Sterling Area and from Transferable Account countries were made free of import license. December. The obligation to provide an advance deposit of 60 per cent of the invoiced value before a bank could open a letter of credit for imports of certain foodstuffs, etc., was abolished. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is established at 63/310 (=0.20322 . . .) grams of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.285 buying, and Sw F 4.46 selling, per US$1. The rate on December 31, 1956 was Sw F 4.285 per US$1. Ex- change is controlled in respect of countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's trade and/or payments with 22 countries or monetary areas,1 and Switzerland controls its payments with 4 others.2 In accordance with the provisions of several of these payments agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. A fee of 3/10 of 1 per cent is charged on payments through the sector of controlled payments, and in addition there is a fee of 2/10 of 1 per cent on payments with other EPU countries to cover Swiss expenses resulting from membership in the EPU. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries) may be made freely at free market rates. Switzerland participates with Austria (since January 2, 1957), Bel- gium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom in a multi- lateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which author- ized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery (three months' delivery for transactions in French francs or with banks in France), with other authorized banks in any of these territories. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the ex- change authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. 1 These are listed as Argentina, Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, French Monetary Area, Federal Re- public of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom and other territories of the Sterling Area, and Yugoslavia. 2 These are East Germany, Iran, Portuguese Monetary Area, and Uruguay. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the execu- tive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the opera- tive part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. In all other cases, settle- ments are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts established and operated in accordance with bilateral agreements are controlled, but other nonresident accounts are free of control. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods are admitted into Switzerland on the basis of import licenses only; but in accordance with Switzerland's present liberal import policy, licenses are, generally speaking, granted without quanti- tative limitation. However, quotas are established for certain agri- cultural products and, in the category of industrial products, for heavy motor vehicles and agricultural tractors. Imports from EPU countries are liberalized in accordance with the OEEC code of liberalization; imports from dollar area countries are subject to the same regime. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the free market. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely insofar as the applica- tion of bilateral agreements does not necessitate control over such payments. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of many goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organiza- tions. In dealing with applications to export to countries with which Switzerland has payments agreements, the availability of sufficient funds under the relevant agreement is taken into consideration. Pro- ceeds accruing from exports to countries in the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the exist- ing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles originating in countries in the sector of con- trolled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds from other countries are freely dispos- able. Hotels and boarding houses are authorized to cash travelers' credit documents issued in certain countries in the sector of controlled payments up to Sw F 2,000 per person per journey to Switzerland. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled pay- ments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to or from other countries may be effected freely. Banknotes Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Changes during 1956 March 15. The limit on the cashing by hotels and boarding houses of travelers7 credit documents issued in countries in the sector of con- 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND trolled payments was changed from Sw F 1,500 per person per month to Sw F 2,000 per person per journey to Switzerland. May 1. The limit below which outgoing payments to countries in the sector of controlled payments may be made without documentation was raised from Sw F 100 to Sw F 500. At the same time, the limit below which incoming payments from those countries (except Bulgaria, Poland, and Yugoslavia) need not be declared was raised from Sw F 1,000 to Sw F 3,000. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The official rate is Tunisian Franc 1 = French Franc 1. There is free transferability between the two currencies. Exchange rates are orderly, based on the exchange rates in the official and "free" exchange markets in Paris, to which the authorized banks have access. Exchange Control Territory Tunisia is part of the French Franc Area. No limitations are placed on the movement of funds between Tunisia and France; between Tunisia and other parts of the Area, transfers are allowed on the same conditions as apply to transactions between France and those ter- ritories. Administration of Control All French regulations on foreign trade and payments are applicable in Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by a Delegation in Tunis of the Exchange Control Office of the French Franc Area. Details of the exchange control are carried out by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency The methods of payment and receipt for settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are in conformity with the French ex- change control regulations and the agreements concluded for the French Franc Area. Imports and Import Payments Certain commodities originating in and consigned from OEEC coun- tries and their associated areas may be imported freely. All other imports require import licenses. Imports must be recorded with an authorized bank. Authorized imports may be made within the limits of the exchange placed at the disposal of the importer. Some commodi- ties may be imported with the freely available proportion of export proceeds retained in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control approval, ex- cept those to other parts of the French Franc Area, which may be made 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA freely. Travelers may not take out Tunisian francs unless authorized by the Delegation of the Exchange Control Office. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to license. Nonresident travelers may obtain foreign currencies against payment in French francs, but foreign bank- notes are provided only up to the amount permitted to be imported under the regulations of the country to be visited. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports require export licenses, but others may be exported if the exporter gives an undertaking to collect and surrender the exchange proceeds. Exports must be recorded with an authorized bank and the exchange proceeds surrendered within three months from the date of exportation. Certain percentages of export proceeds may, however, be retained in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts and used by the original exporter or supplier of the goods either to pay certain commercial expenses or to pay for imports of certain commodi- ties. The percentages that may be retained in EFAC accounts are 15 per cent for exports giving rise to the sale of a convertible currency; 10 per cent for exports giving rise to the sale of other currencies; and 6 per cent for exports consigned on a sell-at-best basis. Of the 15 per cent, 3 per cent may be used for any payment abroad, including pay- ments for imports of goods of any type. U.S. dollars and other cur- rencies of the dollar area in EFAC accounts may be exchanged for any other currency; the currencies of most EPU countries may be ex- changed for the currency of any other EPU country. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of currencies of the French Franc Area, which may be retained, residents must surrender to an authorized bank any foreign exchange received by them. Domestic and foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. Capital Foreign investments in Tunisia require prior authorization, which may be given by the Delegation of the Exchange Control Office with the agreement of the Tunisian Government. Profits may be transferred freely and capital repatriated if, when the investment was made, refer- ence was made to Notice 419 of the Exchange Control Office. There are no restrictions on the movement of capital to and from other parts of the French Franc Area. Securities may be imported freely through the authorized banks. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Changes during 1956 January L A customs union between Tunisia and France came into effect. (The separate exchange control regulations of Tunisia arise out of the Economic and Financial Convention between Tunisia and France, signed on June 3, 1955.) March 20. By the terms of a Protocol signed by Tunisia and France, Tunisia ceased to be a French Protectorate and her independence was recognized. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 